Title: The Packaging Waste (Data Reporting) (Scotland) Regulations 2023
Date: 2024-07-03
Description: These Regulations impose requirements on producers who are established in Scotland to collect data on the packaging they supply to others, and, in some cases, to report some of that information to the Scottish Environment Protection Agency (SEPA).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ssi/2023/7

## The Packaging Waste (Data Reporting) (Scotland) Regulations 2023

    Environmental Protection

  Made   17th January 2023

  Laid before the Scottish Parliament   19th January 2023

  Coming into force   28th February 2023

      The Scottish Ministers make the following Regulations in exercise of the
powers conferred by sections 18 and 58, and paragraphs 14, 17, 19, 22, 31, 32
and 33 of schedule 2 of the Regulatory Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 (the “ 2014
Act ”)  and all other powers enabling them to do so.           In accordance
with section 19(1) of the 2014 Act, the Scottish Ministers have consulted the
Scottish Environment Protection Agency and such other persons as they thought
fit, including such persons appearing to them to be representative of the
interests of local government, industry, agriculture, fisheries or small
businesses as they considered appropriate.

### General

#### Citation and commencement

1

These Regulations may be cited as the Packaging Waste (Data Reporting)
(Scotland) Regulations 2023 and come into force on 28 February 2023.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ the Waste Directive ” means  Directive 2008/98/EC  of the European
Parliament and of the Council on waste  read in accordance with regulation 4,
“ the 2007 Regulations ” means the Producer Responsibility Obligations
(Packaging Waste) Regulations 2007 , “ approved person ” means the person for
the time being approved under regulation 24 for the purpose of verifying
information provided by a producer— to SEPA under regulation 17(1), to the
operator of a scheme under regulation 19(2)(a),   “ brand ” means a brand
name, trade mark or other distinctive mark,     “ brand owner ” means, subject
to regulation 8(2A), a person whose brand appears on an item of filled
packaging,     “ branded packaging ” means packaging on which the brand
owner’s brand appears,   “ bring site ” has the meaning given in section
45C(7) of the Environmental Protection Act 1990 , “ consumer ” means an
individual acting for purposes which are outside that individual’s trade,
business, craft or profession, “ data collection obligations ” means the
obligations in regulation 16, “ data collection period ” has the meaning given
in regulation 16(7), “ data reporting obligations ” means the obligations in
regulation 17, ... “ distributor ” means a person who manufactures or imports
unfilled packaging and supplies that packaging to another person, “ drink ”
has the meaning given in regulation 5,   “ drink container ” means a bottle or
can, which— contains or used to contain drink, is made wholly or mainly from
polyethylene terephthalate (PET) plastic, glass, steel or aluminium, has a
capacity of at least 50 millilitres but no more than three litres of liquid,
is designed or intended to be sealed in an airtight and watertight state at
the point of supply to a consumer in the United Kingdom, is not conceived,
designed or marketed to be refilled or re-used in any other way by any person,
“ exempt packaging ” means packaging which is exempt in relation to a producer
in accordance with regulation 12(2), “ fibre-based composite material ” means
packaging material which is made of paperboard or paper fibres, laminated with
plastic, and which may also have layers of other materials, to form a single
unit that cannot be separated by hand,   “ first UK owner ” in relation to
packaging which is not imported, means the first person established in the
United Kingdom who takes ownership of that packaging in the United Kingdom,
“ household packaging ” has the meaning given in regulation 7, “ importer ”
means— the person responsible for importing  ... packaging into the United
Kingdom, whether or not that packaging ends up being supplied, or where the
person referred to in paragraph (a) of this definition is not   established
in the United Kingdom, the first person  established   in the United Kingdom
who takes ownership of the packaging, “ large producer ” means a producer who
satisfies the criteria in— regulation 11(1), regulation 11(3), “ licence
agreement ” has the meaning given in regulation 9(3), “ licensee ” has the
meaning given in regulation 9(3), “ licensor ” has the meaning given in
regulation 9(1), “ online marketplace operator ” means the operator of a
website, or any other means by which information is made available over the
internet, which facilitates the sale of goods through the website or other
means by persons other than the operator, whether or not the operator also
sells goods through the online marketplace, “ operator ” in relation to an
online marketplace, means the person who controls access to, and the contents
of, the online marketplace provided that the person is involved in—
determining any terms and conditions applicable to the sale of goods,
processing, or facilitating the processing, of payment for the goods, and the
ordering or delivery, or facilitating the ordering or delivery, of the goods,
“ packaging ” has the meaning given in regulation 6, “ packaging category ”
means one of the categories referred to in regulation 6(4), “ packaging
materials ” means materials used in the manufacture of packaging and includes
raw materials and processed materials prior to their conversion into
packaging, “ packaging waste ” means any packaging or packaging material which
is waste, but does not include packaging which is discarded and becomes waste
outside the United Kingdom, “ packer/filler ” means a person who puts goods
into packaging, ... “ primary packaging ” has the meaning given in regulation
6(1)(a), “ producer ” has the meaning given in regulation 8, “ pub operating
agreement ” has the meaning given in regulation 9(3), “ pub operating business
” has the meaning given in regulation 9(2), ... “ recycling ” has the meaning
given in Article 3(17) of the Waste Directive, “ registered scheme ” means a
scheme which is registered in accordance with the 2007 Regulations,   “
relevant authority ” means— a waste collection authority, a waste disposal
authority, a district council established under section 1 of the Local
Government Act (Northern Ireland) 1972 the Council of the Isles of Scilly   “
relevant year ” means a calendar year in respect of which a person is a
producer, “ reuse ” has the meaning given to it in Article 3(13) of the Waste
Directive, “ reusable packaging ” means packaging which has been designed to
be used multiple times by being refilled or reused for the same purpose for
which it was conceived, “ scheme ” means a scheme which is (or if it were
registered in accordance with the 2007 Regulations would be) a scheme whose
members for the time being are, by virtue of Part 3 of these Regulations and
their membership of that scheme, exempt from the requirement to comply with
their data reporting obligations, “ secondary packaging ” has the meaning
given in regulation 6(1)(b), “ seller ” means a person who supplies packaging
to a user or a consumer of that packaging, whether or not the packaging has
been filled at the time of the supply, “ SEPA ” means the Scottish Environment
Protection Agency, “ service provider ” means a person who supplies reusable
packaging to a user of that packaging where the supply is made by hiring out
or lending the packaging, “ shipment packaging ” has the meaning given in
regulation 6(1)(d), “ small producer ” means a producer who satisfies the
criteria in — regulation 11(2), but not those in regulation 11(1), regulation
11(4), but not those in regulation 11(3), “ tenant ” has the meaning given in
regulation 9(3), “ tertiary packaging ” has the meaning given in regulation
6(1)(c), “ trade mark ” has the same meaning as in section 1(1) of the Trade
Marks Act 1994 , “ turnover ” means, in relation to a person, their turnover
as defined in section 539 of the Companies Act 2006  but as if the references
to a company were references to that person, “ UK regulator ” means — in
relation to England, the Environment Agency, in the relation to Wales, the
Natural Resources Body for Wales, in relation to Northern Ireland, the
Department of Agriculture, Environment and Rural Affairs for Northern Ireland
“ waste ” has the meaning given in Article 3(1) of the Waste Directive, read
with Articles 5 and 6 of that Directive, “ waste collection authority ” has
the meaning given in section   30(3)   of the Environmental Protection Act
1990 ,   “ waste disposal authority ” has the meaning given in section 30(2)
of the Environmental Protection Act 1990,

2.2

For the purposes of the definition of “online marketplace operator” an online
marketplace facilitates the sale of goods if it allows a person to—

2.2.a

offer goods for sale, and

2.2.b

enter into a contract for the sale of those goods.

2.3

In these Regulations—

2.3.a

any document which is to be provided or given to any person may be provided or
given to that person by electronic means if the document is capable of being
reproduced by that person in legible form,

2.3.b

any requirement to make, keep or retain a record or to maintain a register may
be satisfied in electronic form if the text is capable of being produced by
the person subject to the requirement in a legible documentary form,

2.3.c

any requirement for a signature may be satisfied by an electronic signature
incorporated into the document, and for these purposes, “ electronic signature
” means data in electronic form which is attached to or logically associated
with other data in electronic form and which is used by the signatory to sign.

#### Establishment in Scotland and the United Kingdom

3

3.1

In these Regulations, a person is established in—

3.1.a

Scotland if—

3.1.a.i

that person is habitually resident in Scotland,

3.1.a.ii

the registered office of that person, or if they do not have a registered
office, their head office, or principal place of business, is in Scotland,

3.1.a.iii

paragraph (2) applies.

3.1.b

the United Kingdom if—

3.1.b.i

that person is habitually resident in the United Kingdom,

3.1.b.ii

the registered office of that person, or if they do not have a registered
office, their head office, or principal place of business, is in the United
Kingdom.

3.2

This paragraph applies if—

3.2.a

the registered office of that person, or if they have no registered office,
their head office or principal place of business of that person is outside the
United Kingdom,

3.2.b

the person has a branch or postal address in Scotland, and

3.2.c

the person has not given notice to SEPA under paragraph (3).

3.3

Where a person to whom paragraph (2)(a) applies has a branch or postal address
in Scotland and in one or more other nations in the United Kingdom, that
person may elect to be treated as established in one of those other nations
instead of Scotland by giving notice to SEPA.

3.4

A notice given under paragraph (3) must specify the nation in which the person
giving the notice wishes to be treated as established for the purposes of
these Regulations.

3.5

When SEPA receives notice of an election under paragraph (3), SEPA must notify
the UK regulator in the nation specified in the notice.

#### Modifications of the Waste Directive

4

4.1

For the purposes of these Regulations, the Waste Directive is to be read in
accordance with this regulation.

4.2

A reference to one or more member States in a provision imposing an obligation
or conferring a discretion on a member State or member States is to be read as
a reference to the authority, agency or local authority which, immediately
before IP completion day, was responsible for the United Kingdom’s compliance
with that obligation or able to exercise that discretion in respect of
Scotland.

4.3

Article 5 is to be read as if—

4.3.a

in paragraph 1, “Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that”
were omitted,

4.3.b

after paragraph 1 there were inserted—

4.3.b.1A

Any decision as to whether a substance or object is a by-product must be made—

4.3.b.1A.a

in accordance with any regulations setting out detailed criteria on the
application of the conditions in paragraph 1 to specific substances or
objects, and

4.3.b.1A.b

having regard to any guidance published by the Scottish Ministers or SEPA for
the purposes of this Article.

,

4.3.c

paragraphs 2 and 3 were omitted.

4.4

Article 6 is to be read as if—

4.4.a

in paragraph 1, “Member States shall take appropriate measures to ensure that”
were omitted,

4.4.b

after paragraph 1 there were inserted—

4.4.b.1A

Any decision as to whether a substance or object has ceased to be waste must
be made—

4.4.b.1A.a

in accordance with any regulations or retained direct EU legislation setting
out detailed criteria on the application of the conditions in paragraph 1 to
specific types of waste, and

4.4.b.1A.b

having regard to any guidance published by the Scottish Ministers or SEPA for
the purposes of this Article.

,

4.4.c

in paragraph 2—

4.4.c.i

the first subparagraph were omitted,

4.4.c.ii

in the second subparagraph, for “Those detailed criteria” there were
substituted  “Any detailed criteria set out in guidance as referred to in
paragraph 1A” ,

4.4.c.iii

the third and fourth subparagraphs were omitted,

4.4.d

paragraph 3 were omitted,

4.4.e

in paragraph 4—

4.4.e.i

in the first subparagraph—

4.4.e.i.aa

in the first sentence, for the words from the beginning to “Member State”,
there were substituted  “Where criteria have not been set out as referred to
in paragraph 1A(a), SEPA,” ,

4.4.e.i.bb

the second sentence were omitted,

4.4.e.ii

in the second subparagraph—

4.4.e.ii.aa

for “Member States” there were substituted  “SEPA,”

4.4.e.ii.bb

“by competent authorities” were omitted.

#### Drink

5

5.1

For the purposes of these Regulations,  ... drink means—

5.1.a

water suitable for human consumption,

5.1.b

a beverage suitable for human consumption,

5.1.c

a sports drink suitable for human consumption,

5.1.d

a liquid which, when prepared in a specified manner, constitutes a beverage
suitable for human consumption (including, for example, a fruit cordial or a
fruit squash) or a sports drink.

5.2

For the avoidance of doubt, paragraph (1)(d) does not apply to a liquid which
is used only as a flavouring or sweetener in another liquid which itself
constitutes a beverage suitable for human consumption.

5.3

A liquid is prepared in a specified manner if it is—

5.3.a

diluted,

5.3.b

combined with crushed ice, or processed so as to create crushed ice,

5.3.c

combined with carbon dioxide,

5.3.d

prepared by way of a process that involves any combination of the processes
mentioned in sub-paragraphs (a) to (c).

5.4

In this regulation “ sports drink ” means a drink which is advertised or
marketed as a product to enhance physical performance, accelerate recovery
after exercise or build bulk, or other similar drink.

#### Packaging and packaging categories

6

6.1

“Packaging”, for the purposes of these Regulations, means all products made of
any materials of any nature to be used for the containment, protection,
handling, delivery and presentation of goods, from raw materials to processed
goods, from the producer to the user or the consumer, including non-returnable
items used for the same purposes, but only where the products are—

6.1.a

primary packaging, which is packaging conceived so as to constitute a sales
unit to the final user or consumer at the point of purchase,

6.1.b

secondary packaging, which is packaging conceived so as to constitute at the
point of purchase a grouping of a certain number of sales units whether the
latter is supplied as such to the final user or consumer or whether it serves
only as a means to replenish the shelves at the point of sale, and which can
be removed from the product without affecting the product’s characteristics,

6.1.c

tertiary packaging, which is packaging conceived so as to facilitate handling
and transport of a number of sales units or secondary packaging in order to
prevent damage from physical handling and transport damage, and for the
purposes of these Regulations, tertiary packaging  which is not shipment
packaging and   does not include road, rail, ship and air containers,

6.1.d

shipment packaging, which is packaging,  ... in addition to primary packaging,
on items which are sold online or by mail order which are either delivered
direct to the purchaser or collected by the purchaser from a shop or other
collection point after they have been purchased.

6.2

The following items are also to be treated as packaging on the basis of the
criteria set out below—

6.2.a

items that fulfil the definition in paragraph (1), without prejudice to other
functions which the item may perform, unless the item is an integral part of a
product and it is necessary to contain, support or preserve that product
throughout its lifetime and all elements are intended to be used, consumed or
disposed of together,

6.2.b

items designed and intended to be filled at the point of sale and disposable
items supplied, filled, or designed and intended to be filled, at the point of
sale, provided they fulfil a packaging function described in paragraph (1),

6.2.c

packaging components and ancillary elements integrated into packaging are
considered to be part of the packaging into which they are integrated, and
ancillary elements hung directly on, or attached to, a product which performs
a packaging function are considered to be packaging unless they are an
integral part of the product and all elements are intended to be used,
consumed or disposed of together.

6.3

Schedule 5 of the Packaging (Essential Requirements) Regulations 2015
contains illustrative examples of the   application of the criteria   set out
in paragraph (2).

6.4

For the purpose of these Regulations, packaging and packaging waste is to be
treated, subject to paragraphs (5) and (6), as falling into one of the
following packaging categories, depending on the material from which the
packaging is made—

6.4.a

aluminium,

6.4.b

fibre-based composite materials,

6.4.c

glass,

6.4.d

paper or board,

6.4.e

plastic,

6.4.f

steel,

6.4.g

wood,

6.4.h

other materials.

6.5

Packaging materials composed of a combination of the materials referred to in
paragraph (4) (“paragraph (4) materials”) are to be treated as made of the
material which is predominant by weight, unless paragraph (6) applies.

6.6

Where packaging materials are composed of a combination of different paragraph
(4) materials in equal proportions, each material of which the packaging
materials are comprised is to be treated separately for the purpose of these
Regulations.

6.7

Where a drink container consists of a number of components made of different
materials—

6.7.a

the drink container is to be treated as being made of the same material as the
component which is predominant by weight (the “predominant component”), unless
the predominant component is made of glass,

6.7.b

where the predominant component is made of glass, each component of the drink
container is to be treated separately for the purposes of these Regulations.

#### Household packaging

7

7.1

In these Regulations, “household packaging” is primary or shipment packaging
which is not packaging described in paragraph (2).

7.2

The following primary or shipment packaging is not household packaging—

7.2.a

packaging supplied to a business or to a public institution which in either
case is the final user of that packaging,

7.2.b

packaging for a product, where—

7.2.b.i

the product is designed only for use by a business or a public institution,
and

7.2.b.ii

the packaging for the product is not reasonably likely to be disposed of in a
household bin or a public bin,

7.2.c

packaging imported into the United Kingdom by an importer and discarded in the
United Kingdom by that importer.

7.3

Packaging is not to be treated as falling within paragraph (2)(a) or (b)
unless the producer supplying that packaging can provide evidence that—

7.3.a

in the case of paragraph (2)(a), the packaging is supplied to a business or a
public institution which does not supply to any other person—

7.3.a.i

the packaging,

7.3.a.ii

the product which the packaging contains in its packaged form,

7.3.b

in the case of paragraph (2)(b)—

7.3.b.i

the product satisfies the requirement in head (i), and

7.3.b.ii

the packaging for the product satisfies the requirement in head (ii),

7.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2)(b), “ packaging for a product ” means—

7.4.a

packaging supplied with a product satisfying the conditions in paragraph
(2)(b) (“a business product”), and

7.4.b

unfilled packaging made to be used with a business product, provided that the
supplier of that packaging has evidence that the packaging will be used with
such a product.

7.5

For the purposes of paragraph (3)(a)(ii), a product is to be treated as being
supplied in its packaged form unless all packaging is removed from the product
before it is supplied to the final user of that product.

7.6

For the purposes of this regulation and regulation 7A, the following
institutions are to be treated as public institutions—

7.6.a

a school, university or other educational establishment,

7.6.b

a hospital or the practice of a general medical practitioner or dentist,

7.6.c

a nursing home or other residential home,

7.6.d

a government department,

7.6.e

a relevant authority,

7.6.f

a court or tribunal,

7.6.g

a person established, or appointed, by or under any enactment to discharge
public functions,

7.6.h

a charity or other not-for-profit body,

7.6.i

a penal institution.

7.7

In this regulation—

“ dentist ” means a person registered in the dentists register kept under
section 14(1) of the Dentists Act 1984 , “ general medical practitioner ”
means a person registered in the General Practitioner Register kept by the
General Medical Council under section 34C of the Medical Act 1983 , “
government department ” includes— any part of the Scottish Administration, a
Northern Ireland department, the Welsh Government, “ not for profit body ”
means a body which, by virtue of its constitution or any enactment— is
required (after payment of outgoings) to apply the whole of its income, and
any capital which it expends, for charitable or public purposes, and is
prohibited from directly or indirectly distributing among its members any part
of its assets otherwise than for charitable or public purposes.

7.8

In this regulation and in regulation 7A—

“ household bin ” means a receptable designed to collect waste from a
household which is not a business or a public institution, “ public bin ”
means a receptacle— maintained by a relevant authority in a street or public
place, and designed to collect waste.

#### SEPA guidance

7A

7A.1

SEPA must provide guidance for the purposes of regulation 7 on the following
matters—

7A.1.a

the evidence which may be used by a producer to demonstrate that primary
packaging or shipment packaging is supplied to a business or public
institution which in either case is the final user of the packaging,

7A.1.b

on when—

7A.1.b.i

a product is to be treated as being designed only for use by a business or a
public institution, and

7A.1.b.ii

packaging for that product is to be treated as not reasonably likely to be
disposed of in a household bin or a public bin.

7A.2

SEPA may take the following factors into account in the preparation of
guidance under paragraph (1)(b)—

7A.2.a

the size of the packaging,

7A.2.b

the weight of the packaging,

7A.2.c

whether the supply of a product is subject to restrictions imposed by or under
primary or secondary legislation,

7A.2.d

how available a product or its packaging is to consumers,

7A.2.e

whether a product is likely to be used by a business in a household,

7A.2.f

any other factor SEPA considers relevant.

#### Producers

8

8.1

A person is a producer in relation to the packaging specified in this
regulation if they perform in any nation of the United Kingdom the functions
of one or more of the following classes in relation to packaging, either on
their own behalf, or through an agent acting on their behalf, and in the
course of business—

8.1.a

a brand owner,

8.1.b

a packer/filler,

8.1.c

an importer  or first UK owner ,

8.1.d

a distributor,

8.1.e

an online marketplace operator,

8.1.f

a service provider,

8.1.g

a seller.

8.1A

No person may be treated as performing one of the functions listed in
paragraph (1) for the purposes of this regulation unless they are established
in the United Kingdom.

8.2

Unless paragraph   (3)(b)(iii), (3A) or (4)  applies, and subject to
paragraphs (2A) and (8A) , a brand owner is a producer in relation to—

8.2.a

filled packaging on which that person’s brand appears, and

8.2.b

any part of the packaging contained in, or forming part of, branded packaging,
whether or not that part of the packaging is branded.

8.2A

  Unless paragraph (3A) or (4) applies, and subject to paragraph (8A) , where
more than one brand appears on filled packaging, the owner of the brand who
makes the first supply of the filled packaging is to be treated as the brand
owner and producer in relation to that packaging  and any packaging contained
in, or forming part of, that packaging (whether or not that part of the
packaging is branded) .

8.2B

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

8.3

A packer/filler is a producer in relation to any filled packaging—

8.3.a

which is filled by the packer/filler, and

8.3.b

for which—

8.3.b.i

there is no brand owner established in the United Kingdom,

8.3.b.ii

the brand owner is not a large producer, or

8.3.b.iii

the only brand on the packaging relates to the packaging and not to the
product contained in that packaging.

8.3A

A packer/filler is also a producer  in relation to any packaging —

8.3A.a

where—

8.3A.a.i

the packer/filler has filled packaging,

8.3A.a.ii

the packer/filler has put a brand on the packaging to assist with
distribution, not at the request of the brand owner, and

8.3A.a.iii

there is no other brand on the packaging,

8.3A.b

... which the packer/filler adds to branded packaging otherwise than at the
request of the brand owner.

8.4

An importer (“ IM ”) is a producer in relation to any packaging imported into
the United Kingdom to which paragraph (4A) applies—

8.4.a

for which IM is the importer, and

8.4.b

which is—

8.4.b.i

filled packaging, or

8.4.b.ii

packaging discarded by IM in the United Kingdom.

8.4A

This paragraph applies to packaging—

8.4A.a

for which there is no brand owner established in the United Kingdom,

8.4A.b

where the brand owner is not responsible for the import of the packaging, or

8.4A.c

where the brand owner is responsible for the import of the packaging, but is
not a large producer.

8.4B

A first UK owner is a producer in relation to any packaging where—

8.4B.a

the packaging is packed or filled in the United Kingdom on behalf of a person
who is not established in the United Kingdom,

8.4B.b

at the time it is packed or filled, no person established in the United
Kingdom is or has been the owner of the packaging, and

8.4B.c

the filled packaging is supplied to the first UK owner.

8.5

A distributor is a producer in relation to any unfilled packaging which is—

8.5.a

manufactured or imported by the distributor, and

8.5.b

supplied to any person, other than a large producer who fills or packs the
packaging before supplying it to any other person,

  except where a large producer who is a brand owner or a packer/filler is the
producer in relation to that packaging under paragraph (2), (2A), (3) or (3A)
once the packaging is filled.

8.6

An online marketplace operator is a producer in relation to—

8.6.a

any packaging on items which are sold on their online marketplace by a person,
acting in the course of business, who is not established in the United
Kingdom,

8.6.b

any unfilled packaging supplied on their online marketplace—

8.6.b.i

by a person, acting in the course of business, who is not established in the
United Kingdom,

8.6.b.ii

to a business which is not a large producer subject to obligations under
regulation 15(3),

provided that the packaging is received in the United Kingdom.

8.7

A service provider is a producer in relation to any reusable packaging, the
first time that packaging is supplied, but not otherwise.

8.8

A seller of filled packaging to the  final user  of that packaging is a
producer in relation to that packaging, and for these purposes, the   final
user   is the person who last uses the packaging in question before discarding
it.

8.8A

Where different individual products are grouped together to be sold as a
single sales unit, this regulation must be applied separately to determine the
producer of—

8.8A.a

the packaging for each individual product within the sales unit, and

8.8A.b

the packaging for the sales unit as a whole, including any packaging within
the sales unit which is not part of the packaging of any individual product
within that sales unit.

8.9

Where a person performs the functions of more than one of the classes in sub-
paragraph (1), whether or not in relation to the same packaging, or the same
transaction or process, that person belongs to each class.

8.10

For the purposes of this regulation, a person acts “in the course of business”
if they act in the ordinary course of conduct of a trade, business, craft or
profession.

#### Licensors and pub operating businesses

9

9.1

For the purposes of these Regulations, a person (“ L ”) is a licensor where L
is a party to a licence agreement in or under which L grants a licence to use
a trade mark to another.

9.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, a person (“ P ”) is a pub operating
business where—

9.2.a

P is a party to a pub operating agreement in or under which P grants a lease
or tenancy of premises in Scotland to another, and

9.2.b

those premises are used by the tenant in order to carry on the activity of the
sale of alcohol for consumption on the premises or both on and off the
premises and in respect of which a premises licence is in force.

9.3

In this regulation—

“ alcohol ” has the same meaning as in section 2 of the Licensing (Scotland)
Act 2005 , “ licence agreement ” means an agreement or number of related
agreements in or under which the licensor grants the licensee a licence that
allows the licensee to use a trade mark as the name under which the licensee
sells from premises goods that are associated with that trade mark, and
includes an obligation (whether expressed as a positive or as a negative
obligation) on the licensee that relates to the presentation of those
premises, “ licensee ” means the party to a licence agreement to whom a
licence to use a trade mark is granted, “ premises ” means any sales outlet on
which packaging is handled and includes any land, vehicle, vessel, mobile
plant and stall, “ premises licence ” has the same meaning as in section 17 of
the Licensing (Scotland) Act 2005, “ pub operating agreement ” means an
agreement or number of related agreements in or under which one person (the
pub operating business) grants a tenancy or lease of premises to another
person (the tenant) that includes an obligation (whether expressed as a
positive or as a negative obligation) on the tenant to purchase some or all of
the alcohol to be sold or supplied on or from the premises, from the pub
operating business or from a person or persons nominated or authorised by or
on behalf of that business, “ sale of alcohol ” includes the circumstances
described in section 3 of the Licensing (Scotland) Act 2005, “ tenant ” means
the party to a pub operating agreement to whom the lease or tenancy of
premises is granted.

#### Supply

10

10.1

In these Regulations, a person “supplies” packaging or packaging materials if
that person does any of the following, either themselves or through an agent
acting on their behalf, in relation to packaging or packaging materials owned
by that person—

10.1.a

selling, hiring out or lending,

10.1.b

providing in exchange for any consideration other than money,

10.1.c

providing in or in connection with the performance of any statutory function,

10.1.d

giving as a prize or otherwise making a gift.

10.1A

In these Regulations—

10.1A.a

a first UK owner is to be treated as “supplying” any packaging which—

10.1A.a.i

has not been supplied, within the meaning of these Regulations, before coming
into the ownership of the first UK owner, and

10.1A.a.ii

is discarded by the first UK owner in the United Kingdom,

10.1A.b

an importer is to be treated as “supplying” packaging or packaging materials
which the importer imports into and discards in the United Kingdom,

10.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

10.3

Where the packaging is branded packaging,  ... the brand owner is to be
treated for the purposes of these Regulations as supplying that packaging even
if the brand owner does not do any of the actions listed in paragraph (1) in
relation to the packaging.

10.4

Paragraph (3) does not apply in relation to—

10.4.a

any packaging which is imported into the United Kingdom by—

10.4.a.i

an importer, unless the importer is acting as an agent for the brand owner,

10.4.a.ii

an online   marketplace   operator,

10.4.b

any reusable packaging supplied by a service provider.

#### Threshold criteria for large and small producers

11

11.1

A person satisfies the criteria in this paragraph if—

11.1.a

that person’s turnover in the last financial year—

11.1.a.i

in respect of which audited accounts are available,

11.1.a.ii

where audited accounts are not required for that person, in respect of which
accounts are available,

before the relevant date was more than £2,000,000, and

11.1.b

in the calculation year the person handled in aggregate more than 50 tonnes of
packaging or packaging materials.

11.2

A person satisfies the criteria in this paragraph if—

11.2.a

that person’s turnover in the last financial year—

11.2.a.i

in respect of which audited accounts are available,

11.2.a.ii

where audited accounts are not required for that person, in respect of which
accounts are available,

before the relevant date was more than £1,000,000, and

11.2.b

in the calculation year the person handled in aggregate more than 25 tonnes of
packaging or packaging materials.

11.3

Each company in a group of companies which is a producer satisfies the
criteria in this paragraph if—

11.3.a

the aggregate of the turnovers of the companies in the group which are
producers was more than £2,000,000 in the last financial year in respect of
which audited accounts are available before the relevant date, and

11.3.b

in the calculation year the aggregate of the amounts of packaging or packaging
materials handled by each such company is more than 50 tonnes of packaging or
packaging materials.

11.4

Each company in a group of companies which is a producer satisfies the
criteria in this paragraph if—

11.4.a

the aggregate of the turnovers in the last financial year in respect of which
audited accounts are available before the relevant date of the companies in
the group which are producers was more than £1,000,000, and

11.4.b

in the calculation year the aggregate of the amounts of packaging or packaging
materials handled by each such company is more than 25 tonnes of packaging or
packaging materials.

11.5

Where the person (“ MB ”) is a corporate body which has been formed by the
merger of two or more corporate bodies—

11.5.a

MB’s turnover in the year of the merger is to be calculated for the purposes
of this regulation as the sum of the turnovers in the last financial year of
each company which has been merged, and

11.5.b

MB is to be treated as having handled in the year of the merger the sum of the
amount of packaging or packaging materials handled by each of those companies
in the calculation year.

11.6

Where the assets and liabilities of a corporate body (“ CB ”) have been
divided between two or more corporate bodies (“new bodies”), and no audited
accounts are yet available for the new bodies—

11.6.a

each new body is to be treated as having a turnover equal to—

A XA × XT where— “A” is the value of the assets of the new body following the
division, “XA” is the value of the assets of CB before the division, “XT” is
the turnover of CB in the year preceding the division year, and

11.6.b

each new body is to be treated as having handled an amount of packaging or
packaging materials equal to—

A XA × XP where “A” and “XA” have the meaning given in sub-paragraph (a), and
“ XP ” means the amount of packaging or packaging materials handled by CB in
the year preceding the division year.

11.7

For the purposes of this regulation—

11.7.a

audited accounts are to be treated as being available, where the person is a
company, where annual accounts have been delivered to the registrar under
section 441 of the Companies Act 2006 ,

11.7.b

“the division year” is the calendar year in which the assets and liabilities
of CB were divided between two or more companies,

11.7.c

the “relevant date” is 7 April in an obligation year,

11.7.d

a “ group of companies ” means a holding company and one or more subsidiaries,
and for this purpose, “ subsidiary ” and “ holding company ” have the same
meanings as they have in section 1159 of the Companies Act 2006.

11.8

For the purposes of this regulation, the amount of packaging or packaging
materials handled by a person (“ P ”) is the amount supplied in any nation in
the United Kingdom in respect of which P is a producer under regulation 8,
calculated in tonnes to the nearest tonne—

11.8.a

including packaging or packaging materials which were imported into the United
Kingdom by P or an agent acting on P’s behalf (and for these purposes,
packaging includes reusable packaging on the first occasion that packaging is
used),

11.8.b

excluding exempt packaging.

11.9

If P performs two or more functions as producer under regulation 8 in relation
to the packaging—

11.9.a

subject to sub-paragraph (b), all packaging in relation to which P performs a
function is to be taken into account for the purposes of paragraphs (1)(b),
(2)(b), (3)(b)   , (4)(b), (5)(b) and (6)(b) ,

11.9.b

if the functions P performs are performed in relation to the same packaging,
that packaging is only to be taken into account once for the purposes of
paragraphs (1)(b), (2)(b), (3)(b)   , (4)(b), (5)(b) and (6)(b) .

11.10

In this regulation—

“ calculation year ” means the calendar year preceding an obligation year, “
obligation year ” means a calendar year in respect of which it is being
considered whether a person is subject to   data collection obligations alone,
or both data collection obligations and data reporting obligations,   under
these Regulations.

#### Exempt packaging

12

12.1

A producer is not subject to data collection obligations or data reporting
obligations in relation to any packaging or packaging materials which are
exempt in relation to that producer.

12.2

Packaging and packaging materials are exempt in relation to a producer (“ P ”)
for the purposes of these Regulations, where the packaging or packaging
materials are—

12.2.a

reused packaging which is primary packaging,

12.2.b

production residues from the production of packaging or packaging materials or
from any other production process occurring before, during or after P handled
the packaging or packaging materials,

12.2.c

any packaging or packaging materials exported from the United Kingdom by P,
including packaging or packaging materials which were exported through an
agent acting on P’s behalf or which to P’s reasonable knowledge were otherwise
exported from the United Kingdom (with the exception of any packaging or
packaging materials exported from the United Kingdom to a marine
installation),

12.2.d

reused secondary or tertiary packaging, with the exception of any such reused
packaging imported into the United Kingdom.

12.2.e

where paragraph (4) applies, packaging which is—

12.2.e.i

scheme packaging as defined in regulation 3(2) of the Deposit and Return
Scheme for Scotland Regulations 2020 , or returnable packaging as provided for
in any other regulations made under section 84 of the Climate Change
(Scotland) Act 2009 , or

12.2.e.ii

a deposit item for the purposes of regulations made under section 50 of, and
schedule 8 of, the Environment Act 2021 ,

12.3

In paragraph (2)(c),

“ marine installation ” means any artificial island, installation or structure
at sea, other than a vessel.

12.4

This paragraph applies where the packaging referred to in paragraph (2)(e) can
be returned in exchange for payment of a sum equal to the amount of a deposit—

12.4.a

under a deposit and return scheme established by—

12.4.a.i

the Deposit and Return Scheme for Scotland Regulations 2020,

12.4.a.ii

regulations made under section 84 of the Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009,
or

12.4.b

under a deposit scheme established by regulations made under section 50 of,
and Schedule 8 of, the Environment Act 2021.

12.5

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Exclusion of charities from data collection and data reporting obligations

13

These Regulations do not apply to a charity, and for these purposes, “ charity
” includes any body entered in the Scottish Charity Register kept under
section 3 of the Charities and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005 .

#### Incapacity etc.

14

14.1

Where in a relevant year a producer dies, becomes bankrupt, or incapacitated (
“the first producer” ), that person ceases to be subject to any obligations
under these Regulations for that year.

14.2

Any person who carries on the activities of the first producer following that
event is to be treated as a producer and to have the obligations of the
producer for that year and subsequent years.

14.3

Any person carrying on the activities of the first producer referred to in
paragraph (1) must within 28 days of commencing to do so inform SEPA in
writing of that fact and the date of the death, or the date of bankruptcy as
the case may be, or the nature of the incapacity and the date on which it
began.

14.4

A producer which is a body corporate becomes bankrupt or incapacitated when
it—

14.4.a

goes into liquidation,

14.4.b

enters administration under Part 2 of the Insolvency Act 1986  or Part 3 of
the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ,

14.4.c

has an administrative receiver (as defined in section 251 of the Insolvency
Act 1986) appointed in respect of it.

14.5

A producer who is an individual becomes bankrupt or incapacitated when the
individual –

14.5.a

becomes subject to a bankruptcy restrictions order under section 155 of the
Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016 ,

14.5.b

becomes incapacitated (within the meaning of section 1(6) of the Adults with
Incapacity (Scotland) Act 2000 ),

14.5.c

starts to serve a sentence of imprisonment or is remanded in custody in the
United Kingdom,

14.5.d

is detained in hospital under the Mental Health (Care and Treatment)
(Scotland) Act 2003 .

14.6

A producer who is an individual or a partnership becomes bankrupt or
incapacitated when the estate of that person –

14.6.a

is sequestrated under the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016,

14.6.b

is made subject to a protected trust deed (see section 163 of the Bankruptcy
(Scotland) Act 2016).

14.7

A body corporate, individual or partnership which, or who, is subject to the
laws of a jurisdiction other than Scotland becomes bankrupt or incapacitated
on the occurrence of circumstances analogous to those described in paragraphs
(4) to (6).

#### Producers and obligations

##### Producer obligations

15

15.1

This regulation applies to a producer (“ P ”) who is established in Scotland.

15.2

If P is a small producer, but not an online marketplace operator or a seller,
P is subject to the data collection obligations in regulation 16(2).

15.3

If P is a large producer, but not an online marketplace operator or a seller,
P is subject to—

15.3.a

the data collection obligations in regulation 16(3), and

15.3.b

the data reporting obligations in regulation 17.

15.4

If P is a small producer who is an online marketplace operator, P is subject
to the data collection obligations in regulation 16(4).

15.5

If P is a large producer who is an online marketplace operator, P is subject
to—

15.5.a

the data collection obligations in regulation 16(4), and

15.5.b

the data reporting obligations in regulation 17.

15.6

If P is a small or large producer who is a seller, P is subject to the data
collection obligations in regulation 16(5).

15.7

The references in paragraphs (2) and (3) to an online marketplace operator and
a seller are to an online market place operator or seller who performs the
functions of no other class referred to in regulation 8(1).

15.8

If P is a producer who is a licensor or a pub operating business, schedule 2
applies to determine whether P is subject to the data collection obligations
in regulation 16(6) in that capacity.

##### Data collection obligations

16

16.1

The data collection obligations in this regulation are as follows.

######## Small producers, other than online marketplace operators and sellers

16.2

A producer subject to the data collection obligations in this paragraph, must
maintain for each data collection period, and retain for at least 7 years
after the end of the data collection period to which they relate, records of
the information referred to in paragraph 10(2) and 21(a) of schedule 1.

######## Large producers, other than online marketplace operators and sellers

16.3

A producer subject to the data collection obligations in this paragraph must—

16.3.a

maintain for each data collection period, and retain for at least 7 years
after the end of the data collection period to which they relate, records of
the information listed in schedule 1,

16.3.b

retain for 7 years evidence—

16.3.b.i

of the amount of packaging waste which they have collected and sent for
recycling, as reported on under paragraph   23(1) to (4)   of schedule 1,

16.3.b.ii

that any relevant packaging waste included in the packaging waste referred to
in head (i) has been recycled, and for these purposes “ relevant packaging
waste ” has the same meaning as in paragraph 23(5) of schedule 1.

######## Online marketplace operators

16.4

A producer subject to the data collection obligations in this paragraph must
maintain for each data collection period and retain for at least 7 years after
the end of the data collection period to which they relate, records of the
information listed in Parts 4 and 5 of schedule 1.

######## Sellers

16.5

A producer subject to the data collection obligations in this paragraph must
maintain for each data collection period, and retain for at least 7 years
after the end of the data collection period to which they relate, records of
the information listed in Part 5 of schedule 1.

######## Licensors and pub operating businesses

16.6

A producer subject to the data collection obligations in this paragraph must
maintain for each data collection period, and retain for at least 7 years
after the end of the data collection period to which they relate, records of
the information listed in paragraphs 22 and   23(2) and (3)   of Part 5 of
schedule 1.

16.7

For the purposes of this regulation, “ data collection period ” means—

16.7.a

the period from the date on which these Regulations come into force until 31
December 2023, and

16.7.b

in subsequent years, the period of 12 months starting on 1 January.

##### Data reporting obligations

17

17.1

A large producer (“ LP ”) who is subject to obligations in this regulation
must, subject to paragraph (2), report the following information to SEPA every
six months, in accordance with this regulation, in such form and manner as
SEPA may direct—

17.1.a

the information in Part 2 of schedule 1, and

17.1.b

where LP is a brand owner, packer/filler, importer  or first UK owner , or
service provider, the information in   paragraphs 11 to 13, 16, 17 and   23 of
schedule 1,

17.1.c

where LP is a distributor, the information in paragraphs   11   to 13, 16, 17
and 23 of schedule 1,

17.1.d

where LP is an online marketplace operator, the information in Part 4 and
paragraph 23 of schedule 1.

17.2

The first report required under paragraph (1) must be made—

17.2.a

for the six months ending on 30 June 2023, or

17.2.b

if LP does not have sufficient data to report on the period from 1 January
2023   to the date on which these Regulations come into force (“ the
commencement date ”), for the period starting on the commencement date and
ending on 30 June 2023,

and must be submitted on or before 1 October 2023.

17.3

Subsequent reports must be submitted—

17.3.a

for the six months ending on 31 December, on or before 1 April in the
following year,

17.3.b

for the six months ending on 30 June, on or before 1 October in the same year.

17.4

LP must ensure that the information reported to SEPA under this regulation—

17.4.a

is as accurate as reasonably possible, and

17.4.b

is verified by the signature of the approved person of LP.

##### Recycling data

17A

17A.1

Where information in a report submitted by a producer (“ LP ”) under
regulation 17 in relation to a period of six months ending on or after 30 June
2024 concerns packaging which has been the subject of recycling obligations
under regulation 4(4)(b) and schedule 2 of the 2007 Regulations (“relevant
packaging”), LP may choose to submit a report under this regulation.

17A.2

A report under this regulation must state the proportion of relevant packaging
which LP has been required to recycle under the 2007 Regulations (“ P ”),
calculated as follows—

P = AP × SP where— “AP” is the amount in kilograms of relevant packaging which
has previously been taken into account to calculate the recycling obligations
of a producer under the 2007 Regulations, “SP” is the sum of the percentages
of that packaging which any class of producer has been required to recycle
under the 2007 Regulations, as set out in paragraph 4 of schedule 2 of those
Regulations.

17A.3

Where LP chooses to submit a report under this regulation, LP must submit the
report—

17A.3.a

in such form and manner as SEPA may direct, and

17A.3.b

on the date on which LP submits a report under regulation 17 or such other
date as SEPA may direct.

17A.4

Where a report under this regulation is not submitted on the same date as the
report under regulation 17, the report under this regulation must also
identify the data collection period to which it relates.

##### Notification of winding-up, receivership, administration, etc.

18

18.1

A producer must inform SEPA as soon as is practicable upon becoming aware that
one or more relevant circumstances apply, or are about to apply, to them.

18.2

For the purposes of this regulation “relevant circumstances” are—

18.2.a

in the case of a body corporate —

18.2.a.i

a winding-up order has been made or a resolution for voluntary winding-up has
been passed,

18.2.a.ii

a determination for a voluntary winding-up has been made,

18.2.a.iii

a receiver or a manager of the company or limited liability partnership’s
undertaking has been duly appointed,

18.2.a.iv

it has entered administration,

18.2.a.v

a voluntary arrangement proposed for the purposes of Part 1 of the Insolvency
Act 1986 has been approved under that Part of the Act,

18.2.b

in the case of an individual or partnership —

18.2.b.i

the individual has become subject to a bankruptcy restrictions order under
section 155 of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016,

18.2.b.ii

the individual has entered into a debt arrangement scheme within the meaning
of Part 1 of the Debt Arrangement and Attachment (Scotland) Act 2002 ,

18.2.b.iii

the individual has been made subject to a protected trust deed (see section
163 of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016),

18.2.b.iv

the individual has been sequestrated under the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016,

18.2.c

in the case of a body corporate, individual or partnership which, or who, is
subject to the laws of a jurisdiction other than Scotland, circumstances
analogous to those described in sub-paragraphs (a) and (b).

### Producers and schemes

#### Producers and scheme membership

19

19.1

Where a producer is a member of a registered scheme throughout a relevant
year, the producer is exempt from its data reporting obligations under
regulation 17 for the relevant year.

19.2

Paragraph (1) does not apply unless the producer—

19.2.a

provides any information the operator of the scheme requests for the purposes
of meeting its obligations under regulation 20 within a reasonable period of
receiving such a request,

19.2.b

ensures that the information provided—

19.2.b.i

is in such form as the scheme operator and SEPA may direct,

19.2.b.ii

is verified by the signature of the approved person of the producer,

19.2.b.iii

is as accurate as reasonably possible,

19.2.c

pays any fee required for membership of the scheme.

#### Schemes: general provisions

20

20.1

The operator of a registered scheme (“ OS ”) must carry out the data reporting
obligations under regulation 17 of each producer who is a member of the scheme
that OS operates, provided that the producer satisfies the conditions in
regulation 19(2).

20.2

OS must retain records of any information provided to OS by its members to
enable OS to make the reports required under paragraph (1), for at least 7
years after the date on which the report is submitted to SEPA.

20.3

OS must monitor the accuracy of information provided by its members for the
purposes of this regulation to ensure that the information complies with the
requirements in regulation 19(2)(b)(iii).

#### Mid-year changes

21

21.1

This regulation applies with regard to changes in membership of a registered
scheme.

21.2

Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), where a person who is a producer in respect
of a year becomes a member of a registered scheme during that year, the data
reporting obligations of the producer for that year, referred to in regulation
20(1), must be performed through the scheme.

21.3

Subject to paragraph (4), where a person who is a producer in respect of a
year ceases to be a member of a registered scheme during that year, that
person must comply with their data reporting obligations for that year.

21.4

Where a person who is a producer in respect of a year ceases to be a member of
one registered scheme (“ the first scheme ”) and becomes a member of another
registered scheme ( “the second scheme” ) during that year, the first scheme
is not required to perform any of the producer’s data reporting obligations,
referred to in regulation 20(1), and all such obligations must be performed
through the second scheme.

##### Publication of items recycled by relevant authorities

22

SEPA must publish—

22.a

a list of the items which are collected for recycling from households by each
waste collection authority in Scotland,

22.b

a list of those items which are collected for recycling from households by
more than 75% of the waste collection authorities in Scotland,

22.c

in paragraphs (a) and (b) above, in relation to glass, “ collected for
recycling from households ” includes glass deposited at a bring site by the
occupier of a domestic property,

##### Publication of list of large producers

22A

22A.1

SEPA must publish on SEPA’s website a list of all large producers (“ the list
”) who have reported information to SEPA under regulation 17.

22A.2

An entry for a producer on the list must contain—

22A.2.a

the name of the producer,

22A.2.b

the business name of the producer if different from that referred to in sub-
paragraph (a),

22A.2.c

the name and address of the registered office of the producer, or if it is not
a company, its head office or principal place of business.

22A.3

The list must be arranged and indexed so that it is capable of being searched
by a member of the public.

22A.4

SEPA must enter information on the list as soon as practicable after the
information has been received by SEPA.

##### Monitoring

23

23.1

SEPA must monitor in accordance with this regulation—

23.1.a

compliance with their data collection obligations and data reporting
obligations by persons who are or may be producers,

23.1.b

compliance by operators of schemes with the obligations referred to in
regulation 20(1) and (2).

23.2

The duty in paragraph (1) includes a duty to monitor the accuracy of—

23.2.a

the records kept by producers pursuant to regulation 16,

23.2.b

the information provided by producers in reports to SEPA pursuant to
regulation 17.

23.3

For the purposes of the discharge of its functions under these Regulations,
SEPA may serve a notice in writing (“an information notice”) on—

23.3.a

any person who has, or who SEPA has reason to believe has, data collection
obligations or data reporting obligations,

23.3.b

in relation to any person who is a member of a registered scheme, the operator
of that scheme.

23.4

An information notice may require that person to maintain records, and supply
to SEPA any data specified in the notice which SEPA reasonably considers it
needs for those purposes, in such form and within such period following
service of the notice, or at such time, as is specified in the notice.

23.5

Where SEPA considers that any information supplied to it by any person further
to a notice issued under paragraph (3), or otherwise under these Regulations,
is inaccurate in any respect, SEPA may require that person to supply corrected
information.

##### Approved persons

24

24.1

SEPA may approve a person listed in paragraph (2) for the purposes of—

24.1.a

verifying information reported by a producer to SEPA under regulation 17(1),

24.1.b

verifying information provided by a producer to the operator of a scheme under
regulation 19(2)(a).

24.2

The persons listed are, where the producer—

24.2.a

is an individual, that individual,

24.2.b

is a partnership, a partner,

24.2.ba

is a limited liability partnership, a member of that partnership,

24.2.c

is a body corporate registered in the United Kingdom, a director or company
secretary of that company,

24.2.d

is an unincorporated association, an individual who has control or management
of that association,

24.2.e

is a body corporate which does not have a registered office in the United
Kingdom, an individual who has control or management of the producer.

24.3

Subject to regulation 25, SEPA may approve the delegation by an approved
person of the person’s functions to any other person.

24.4

An approved person who has delegated functions under paragraph (3) may
continue to perform those functions.

24.5

For the purposes of these Regulations, an act of a delegate performing the
functions of an approved person on that person’s behalf is to be treated as an
act of the approved person.

24.6

In this regulation, and in regulation 25, “ functions ” means the functions
referred to in paragraph (1)(a) and (b).

##### Delegation of approved persons’ functions: procedure

25

25.1

An approved person who proposes the delegation of their functions to another
person under regulation 24(3) must apply for approval to SEPA on a form
supplied for that purpose by SEPA, signed by the approved person.

25.2

An application for approval under paragraph (1) must, within 28 days of
receipt of the application—

25.2.a

be granted where SEPA is satisfied that the proposed delegate, taking into
account the factors specified in paragraph (3), is capable of carrying out the
functions on behalf of the approved person,

25.2.b

otherwise be refused.

25.3

The factors mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) are—

25.3.a

if the proposed delegate is an employee of the producer or the operator of the
scheme, the proposed delegate’s level of seniority,

25.3.b

if the proposed delegate is not an employee of the producer or the operator of
the scheme, the nature of the proposed delegate’s relationship with the
approved person,

25.3.c

the degree of the proposed delegate’s knowledge of, or access to, information
necessary for the purposes of carrying out the functions on behalf of the
approved person,

25.3.d

any other factor which SEPA reasonably thinks is relevant.

25.4

An approval granted in accordance with paragraph (2)(a) may be for such
period, or subject to such other conditions, as SEPA may specify.

25.5

Where an application for approval is granted in accordance with paragraph
(2)(a), SEPA must notify the approved person in writing of this, and of any
conditions it has imposed pursuant to paragraph (4), within 28 days of its
decision.

25.6

SEPA may decide to withdraw approval granted under paragraph (2)(a) and, if
such a decision is taken, must serve on the approved person written notice of—

25.6.a

the decision to withdraw approval,

25.6.b

the reasons for the decision,

25.6.c

the date on which the withdrawal takes effect, not being earlier than 28 days
from the date of the notice.

25.7

If an approved person proposes to revoke a delegation granted under paragraph
(2)(a), the person must serve written notice on SEPA of this and of the date
when the revocation takes effect, not being earlier than 28 days from the date
of the notice.

##### Entry and inspection

26

26.1

A person who appears suitable to SEPA may be authorised in writing by SEPA to
exercise, in accordance with the terms of the authorisation, the powers of
entry and inspection referred to in paragraph (2) in Scotland for the purpose
of—

26.1.a

the exercise of SEPA’s functions under these Regulations,

26.1.b

assisting a UK regulator which has equivalent functions.

26.2

The powers of entry and inspection are those set out in section 108(4)(a) to
(l) of the 1995 Act (powers of enforcing authorities and persons authorised by
them) in relation to Scotland.

26.3

For this purpose, section 108(4) of the 1995 Act is to be read as if
references to the authorised person were references to a person authorised
under paragraph (1) of this regulation and as if—

26.3.a

“(or, in an emergency, at any time and, if need be, by force)” in section
108(4)(a) were omitted,

26.3.b

in section 108(4)(f), for “articles or substances” to the end, there were
substituted  “packaging and packaging materials found in or on any premises
which that person has power to enter” ,

26.3.c

section 108(4)(g) were omitted,

26.3.d

in section 108(4)(h)—

26.3.d.i

the references to any article or substance were to any sample which is or may
be taken under section 108(4)(f), as modified by sub-paragraph (b),

26.3.d.ii

the reference in sub-paragraph (iii) to an offence under the pollution control
enactments were to an offence under regulation 28 of these Regulations,

26.3.d.iii

sub-paragraph (iv) were omitted,

26.3.e

the reference to records in section 108(4)(k)(i) were to the records and
information required to be kept and provided to SEPA under these Regulations,

26.3.f

in section 108(4)(ka)—

26.3.f.i

the reference in sub-paragraph (i) to an offence under the pollution control
enactments or section 40(1) of the Regulatory Reform (Scotland) Act 2014 were
to an offence under regulation 28 of these Regulations,

26.3.f.ii

sub-paragraph (ii) were omitted,

26.3.g

the reference in section 108(4)(1) to the power conferred by section 108 were
to the power conferred by this regulation.

26.4

The provisions of section 108(6) to (7E) and section 108A of the 1995 Act
apply to the powers conferred by paragraphs (1) and (2) above as they apply to
the powers conferred by section 108(4) of the 1995 Act respectively as it
applies in relation to Scotland, but as if any reference to an authorised
person were to a person authorised under paragraph (1) of this regulation, and
as if—

26.4.a

in section 108(6) and (7), the words “Except in an emergency” were omitted,

26.4.b

in section 108(6), the words “or to take heavy equipment on to any premises
which are to be entered” were omitted.

26.5

The provisions of section 108(12) and (13) of the 1995 Act, as they apply in
relation to Scotland, apply to the powers conferred by paragraphs (1) and (2)
above as they apply to the powers conferred by section 108(4) of the 1995 Act.

26.6

The provisions of paragraphs 2 to 6 of schedule 18 of the 1995 Act
(supplemental provisions with respect to powers of entry), as they apply in
relation to Scotland, apply to the powers conferred by this regulation as they
apply to the powers conferred by section 108 of the 1995 Act respectively, but
as if any reference—

26.6.a

to a designated person were to a person authorised in writing by SEPA to
exercise on its behalf any power conferred by this regulation,

26.6.b

to a relevant power were to a power conferred by this regulation, including a
power exercisable by virtue of a warrant under the provisions of the schedule
as applied by this paragraph,

26.6.c

in paragraph 6(1) to section 108(4)(a) or (b) or (5) of the 1995 Act were to
paragraph (1) of this regulation.

26.7

In this regulation—

“ the 1995 Act ” means the Environment Act 1995 ,   “ premises ” has the
meaning given in section 108(15) of the 1995 Act,   “ warrant ” means a
warrant under the provisions set out in schedule 18 of the 1995 Act as applied
by paragraph (6) above.

##### Information sharing

27

SEPA may share any information it receives under these Regulations with the
following entities to enable them to carry out their functions—

27.a

a UK regulator,

27.b

the Scottish Ministers,

27.c

any person or entity authorised by the Scottish Ministers to receive that
information.

### Enforcement

#### Offences and penalties

28

28.1

A person who contravenes the requirement in regulation 14(3) (notice to SEPA)
commits an offence.

28.2

A producer who contravenes a requirement of—

28.2.a

regulation 16 (data collection obligations),

28.2.b

regulation 17 (data reporting obligations),

28.2.c

regulation 18 (notification of winding-up, receivership, administration etc.),

commits an offence.

28.3

The operator of a registered scheme who contravenes a requirement under—

28.3.a

regulation 20(1) (data reporting obligations),

28.3.b

regulation 20(2) (data collection obligations),

commits an offence.

28.4

A person who furnishes any information to SEPA in connection with SEPA’s
functions under these Regulations commits an offence if, in furnishing the
information, that person—

28.4.a

knows the information to be false or misleading in a material particular,

28.4.b

provides such information recklessly, and the information is false or
misleading in a material particular.

28.5

A person who fails without reasonable excuse to comply with any requirement
imposed in a notice under regulation 23(3) commits an offence.

28.6

A person who intentionally delays or obstructs a person authorised by SEPA in
the exercise of powers referred to in regulation 26 commits an offence.

28.7

A person who commits an offence under any of paragraphs (1) to (6) is liable—

28.7.a

on summary conviction, to a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum,

28.7.b

on conviction on indictment, to a fine.

28.8

Subsection (9) applies where—

28.8.a

an offence under these Regulations is committed by a relevant organisation,
and

28.8.b

the commission of the offence involves the connivance or consent of, or is
attributable to the neglect of —

28.8.b.i

a responsible official of the relevant organisation, or

28.8.b.ii

an individual purporting to act in the capacity of a responsible official.

28.9

The responsible official (or, as the case may be, the individual purporting to
act in that capacity), as well as the relevant organisation commits the
offence.

28.10

In this regulation —

      “ relevant organisation ” means —         a company,           a
partnership (including a limited liability partnership),           another
body or association,                 “ a responsible official ” means—–
in the case of a body corporate—         a director, , secretary, manager or
similar officer, or,           where the affairs of the body are managed by
its members, a member,                 in the case of a limited liability
partnership, a member,           in the case of a partnership other than a
limited liability partnership, a partner,           in the case of another
body or association, a person who is concerned in the management or control of
its affairs.

      LORNA SLATER   Authorised to sign by the Scottish Ministers     St
Andrew’s House,   Edinburgh       17th January 2023

  Collection and reporting information

Regulations 16 and 17

##### Interpretation

1

In this schedule—

1.a

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

1.b

“ first reporting period ” means—

1.b.i

the period of six months starting on 1 January and ending on 30 June 2023,

1.b.ii

where regulation 17(2)(b) applies, the period starting on the date on which
these Regulations come into force and ending on 30 June 2023,

1.c

“reporting period”, other than the first reporting period, means a period of
six months, starting on 1 January or 1 July,

1.d

“ relevant period ” means the data collection period for information required
for the purposes of regulation 16, and the reporting period for the purposes
of regulation 17,

1.e

references to the weight of packaging in kilograms or tonnes are references to
the actual, measured weight of that packaging in kilograms to the nearest
kilogram, or in tonnes to the nearest tonne.

2

The name, address and telephone number of the registered office of the
producer or, if not a company, the head office or principal place of business
of the producer.

3

The business name of the producer if different from that referred to in
paragraph 2 above.

4

The name and contact details for the individual at the producer who is
responsible for dealing with enquiries from SEPA.

5

The address for service of notices on the producer if different from that
referred to in paragraph 2 above.

6

Where the producer is a partnership  or a limited liability partnership , the
names of all the partners.

7

Each class of producer to which the applicant belongs.

8

If they belong to more than one class of producer, which of those classes
constitutes their main activity as a producer.

9

Where the producer is a brand owner—

9.a

details of all names, trademarks and other distinctive marks which appear on
packaging for which the brand owner is responsible,

9.b

whether the brand owner also produces packaging on which no name, trade mark
or other distinctive mark appears.

##### Information required from brand owners, packer/fillers, importers 

10

10.1

This Part applies to producers who are—

10.1.a

brand owners,  ...

10.1.aa

packer/fillers,

10.1.b

importers  or first UK owners ,

10.1.c

distributors,

10.1.d

service providers.

10.1A

A producer required by regulation 17 to report information under this Part—

10.1A.a

must only report that information in relation to packaging for which that
producer performs the functions of a class listed in sub-paragraph (1),

10.1A.b

must not report any information in relation to any packaging in relation to
which the producer only performs the functions of a seller or an online
marketplace operator.

10.2

A small producer must keep records of the information in paragraph 11 and
13(1)(a), (b) and (d) as required by regulation   16(2) .

10.3

A large producer (“ LP ”) must—

10.3.a

keep records of the information set out in paragraphs 11 to 17 for the data
collection period as required by regulation 16(3), and

10.3.b

as required by regulation 17(1)—

10.3.b.i

report on   the information set out in paragraphs 11 to 13, 16, 17 and 23   in
relation to the first reporting period and subsequent reporting periods,

10.3.b.ii

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

11

The weight in kilograms of packaging in each packaging category the producer
has supplied during the relevant period.

12

The weight in kilograms of household packaging in each packaging category the
producer has supplied during the relevant period.

13

13.1

A breakdown for the packaging supplied in each packaging category during the
relevant   period, specifying—

13.1.a

whether the packaging is primary packaging, shipment packaging, secondary
packaging, or tertiary packaging (its “packaging type”),

13.1.b

the weight in kilograms of packaging supplied in each packaging type,

13.1.c

the weight in kilograms of household packaging supplied which is primary
packaging or shipment packaging,

13.1.d

the weight in kilograms of packaging, and the number of units of packaging, in
each packaging category which consist of drink containers.

13.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

13.3

Sub-paragraph (1) does not apply in relation to packaging which an importer or
first UK owner is treated as supplying within the meaning of regulation
10(1A).

14

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

15

Producers who are distributors must also, for each large producer subject to
obligations under regulation 15(3) to whom the producer has supplied unfilled
household packaging or other unfilled packaging during the relevant period,
keep records of—

15.a

the identity of the producer,

15.b

the number of units of such packaging supplied,

15.c

the weight of unfilled packaging and of  unfilled  household packaging
supplied to that producer.

16

16. 

Where the producer has instituted a system of   reusing reusable   packaging,
a description of that system, including the following information—

16. .a

the weight in kilograms of all packaging supplied during the   relevant
period that is reusable or refillable,

16. .b

the weight in kilograms of the packaging referred to in sub-paragraph (a)
which is primary packaging,

16. .c

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

16.2

the information provided in sub-paragraph (1) must be given for each packaging
category supplied by the producer in the relevant period,

16.3

the producer need only include information on reusable household packaging in
the year in which it is first supplied.

17

17.1

The weight in kilograms of household packaging supplied by the producer  in
the relevant period in each packaging category,   which consists of items
listed in sub-paragraph (2).

17.2

The following items are relevant for the purposes of sub-paragraph (1)—

17.2.a

packaging provided to consumers with take-away food or drink, including wraps,
boxes, cups, cup-holders, bags  and paper ,

17.2.b

packaging on confectionery, where the confectionery weighs less than 230
grams, including chewing gum packaging, and chocolate wrappers,

17.2.c

packaging on cigarettes, cigars, tobacco and e-cigarettes,

17.2.d

crisp packets or packaging on other savoury snacks, where the crisps or snacks
weigh less than 60 grams,

17.2.e

packaging on single portions of food which can be consumed immediately without
further preparation, including sausage rolls, sushi, sandwiches, biscuits and
individual cakes,

17.2.f

cartons holding 850 millilitres or less of drink whose contents can be
consumed immediately without dilution,

17.2.g

pouches containing less than 600 millilitres of drink, whose contents can be
consumed immediately without dilution.

##### Information required from online marketplace operators

18

Producers who are online marketplace operators—

18.a

must keep records of, and report on, the information set out in paragraphs 19
and 20  for all packaging in respect of which they are a producer under
regulation 8(6) ,

18.b

must provide a description to SEPA of the methodology they use to collate the
information required under sub-paragraph (a).

19

The weight in kilograms of packaging in each packaging category   supplied
through an online marketplace operated by the producer   during the relevant
period.

20

The weight in kilograms of household packaging in each packaging category
supplied through an online marketplace operated by the producer   during the
relevant period.

##### Supply and discarding of packaging by nation

21

Producers who are subject to the data collection obligations in regulation 16
must maintain records of the following information  for all packaging in
respect of which they are a producer, or, for the information in paragraph 22,
a producer of a class specified in that paragraph —

21.a

for small producers, the information in paragraph 22(1)  where applicable ,

21.b

for large producers, the information in paragraphs 22 and 23, where
applicable.

22

22.1

The weight in kilograms of—

22.1.a

all packaging the producer supplies, where the producer is a seller, online
marketplace operator, distributor or service provider,

22.1.b

all packaging the producer discards, where the producer  imports and then   is
an importer,

in a relevant year in each nation in the United Kingdom, in each packaging
category.

22.1.c

all packaging the producer takes ownership of and then discards, when the
producer is a first UK owner.

22.2

For the purposes of reports submitted in relation to the relevant years 2024,
2025 and 2026, producers who are—

22.2.a

sellers who supply secondary or tertiary packaging may estimate the amount of
packaging which has been supplied to a nation in the United Kingdom in order
to calculate the weight of packaging supplied to that nation,

22.2.b

importers who import secondary or tertiary packaging  and first UK owners who
are treated as supplying secondary or tertiary packaging   may estimate the
amount of packaging discarded in a nation of the United Kingdom in order to
calculate the weight of packaging discarded in that nation.

22.3

Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply to packaging which is supplied directly by
the seller to the person using it.

23

23.1

The amount of relevant packaging waste the producer has collected during the
relevant period from persons other than the producer  and sent for recycling .

23.2

The amount of packaging waste the producer has collected during the relevant
period consisting of—

23.2.a

the producer’s own packaging waste,

23.2.b

packaging waste from other persons.

23.3

How much of the waste referred to in sub-paragraph (2) was—

23.3.a

collected from each nation within the United Kingdom,

23.3.b

sent for recycling to another nation in the United Kingdom, identifying the
nation concerned.

23.4

The amount of waste declared under sub-paragraphs (1), (2) and (3) must be
declared by weight, in kilograms, and be further broken down by packaging
category.

23.5

In sub-paragraph (1), packaging waste is “relevant packaging waste” if it is
not collected from households for recycling by more than 75% of the relevant
authorities in Scotland responsible for waste collection.

23.6

In sub-paragraph (5), in relation to glass, “ collected for recycling from
households ” includes glass deposited at a bring site by the occupier of a
domestic property.

23.7

In sub-paragraph (5), “ relevant packaging waste ” includes reusable packaging
which has been reused and has become waste, whether or not it is collected
from households for recycling by more than 75% of relevant authorities in
Scotland responsible for waste collection.

  Licensors and Pub Operating Businesses

Regulation 15(8)

##### General

1

1.1

A head organisation is subject to data collection obligations under regulation
16(6) in the situations set out in paragraph 2(1) below where the conditions
in paragraph 2(2) below are met.

1.2

Where a head organisation has such obligations—

1.2.a

paragraph 6 below applies to determine the obligations of a licensor,

1.2.b

paragraph 8 below applies to determine the obligations of a pub operating
business.

2

2.1

The situations referred to in paragraph 1 above are that—

2.1.a

the head organisation and one or more of its members would, but for the fact
that they do not all satisfy one or both of the threshold tests in regulation
11(2), each have obligations under these Regulations,

2.1.b

two or more members of the head organisation would, but for not satisfying one
or both of the threshold tests in regulation 11(2), each have obligations
under these Regulations,

2.1.c

the head organisation has obligations under these Regulations and one or more
of its members would, but for a failure to satisfy one or both of the
threshold tests in regulation 11(2), each have obligations under these
Regulations.

2.2

The conditions referred to in paragraph 1 above are that—

2.2.a

the head organisation satisfies the threshold test relating to turnover in
regulation 11(2)(a), and

2.2.b

subject to paragraphs   5 and 7   below, the head organisation and one or more
of its members, or its members alone, in one of the situations in sub-
paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) above, together satisfy the threshold test
relating to packaging handled in regulation 11(2)(b).

3

Where the head organisation does not have the information necessary for the
purposes of Parts 2 and 3 the organisation—

3.a

must use its best endeavours to obtain such information,

3.b

where despite having used its best endeavours it nevertheless does not have
such information it must produce its best estimate and that estimate must be
used for the purposes of Parts 2 and 3.

4

For the purposes of this schedule—

4.a

“ head organisation ” means a licensor or pub operating business as defined in
regulation 9,

4.b

“ member ” means—

4.b.i

where the head organisation is a licensor, a licensee being the person granted
a licence to use a trade mark by the licensor under a licence agreement as
provided for in regulation 9,

4.b.ii

where the head organisation is a pub operating business, a tenant being the
person granted a lease or tenancy by the pub operating business as provided
for in regulation 9.

##### Licensors

5

Where the head organisation is a licensor, for the purposes of determining
under paragraph 2(2)(b) above whether the threshold test in regulation
11(2)(b) is satisfied, only the following packaging or packaging materials are
to be taken into account—

5.a

packaging or packaging materials that bear a trade mark of the head
organisation for which a licence to use such trade mark has been granted under
the licence agreement,

5.b

packaging associated with goods that bear a trade mark of the head
organisation for which a licence to use such trade mark has been granted under
the licence agreement, and

5.c

where the member is obliged to—

5.c.i

purchase goods in packaging,

5.c.ii

purchase goods and associated packaging or packaging materials to be used to
contain or protect such goods or to facilitate the handling of or for the
presentation of such goods,

5.c.iii

purchase packaging or packaging materials to be used to contain or protect
such goods or to facilitate the handling of or for the presentation of such
goods,

from the head organisation or, where the head organisation has negotiated some
or all of the terms of the supply, a supplier nominated or authorised by the
head organisation under the licence agreement, such packaging or packaging
materials.

6

Where the head organisation is a licensor—

6.a

where there is a situation falling within paragraph 2(1)(a) or (b) above and
the conditions in paragraph 2(2) above have been met, the head organisation—

6.a.i

is deemed to be a producer of a class or classes specified in regulation 8,

6.a.ii

has data collection obligations in respect of its own activities, where
applicable, and those of its members in respect of the packaging or packaging
materials set out in paragraph 5,

6.b

where there is a situation falling within paragraph 2(1)(c) above and the
conditions in paragraph 2(2) above have been met, the head organisation—

6.b.i

has obligations as a producer in respect of its own activities,

6.b.ii

is deemed to be a producer of one or more classes specified in regulation 8,

6.b.iii

has data collection obligations in respect of the activities of its members in
respect of the packaging or packaging materials set out in paragraph 5.

##### Pub operating businesses

7

7.1

Where the head organisation is a pub operating business, for the purposes of
determining under paragraph 2(2)(b) above whether the threshold test in
regulation 11(2)(b) is met, only packaging or packaging materials specified in
sub-paragraph (2) are to be taken into account.

7.2

The packaging or packaging materials referred to in sub-paragraph (1) are
packaging or packaging materials that contain the goods that are the subject
of the obligation to purchase from the head organisation or person nominated
or authorised by that head organisation under the pub operating agreement,
whether or not the goods have been packed or filled in the packaging or
packaging materials when they are purchased by the member.

8

Where the head organisation is a pub operating business—

8.a

where there is a situation falling within paragraph 2(1)(a) or (b) above and
the conditions in paragraph 2(2) above have been met, the head organisation—

8.a.i

is deemed to be a producer of one or more classes specified in regulation 8,

8.a.ii

has data collection obligations in respect of its own activities, where
applicable, and those of its members in respect of the packaging or packaging
materials set out in paragraph 7(2),

8.b

where there is a situation falling in paragraph 2(1)(c) above and the
conditions in paragraph 2(2) above have been met, the head organisation—

8.b.i

has obligations as a producer in respect of its own activities,

8.b.ii

is deemed to be a producer of one or more classes specified in regulation 8,

8.b.iii

has data collection obligations in respect of the activities of its members in
respect of the packaging or packaging materials set out in paragraph 7(2).

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations impose requirements on producers who are established in
Scotland to collect data on the packaging they supply to others, and, in some
cases, to report some of that information to the Scottish Environment
Protection Agency (SEPA).

  Part 1 (regulations 1 to 14) contains the interpretation and general
provisions for the instrument. Part 2 (regulations 15 to 18) sets out the
obligations on producers. Schedule 1 identifies the information which
producers are required to collect and report on. Schedule 2 determines whether
licensors or pub operating businesses are subject to obligations on producers.
Part 3 (regulations 19 to 21) makes provision for registered schemes and
exempts producers who are members of a registered scheme from their data
reporting obligations under these Regulations provided that they satisfy the
requirements in regulation 19(2). Registered schemes are required to make
reports on behalf of each of their members who satisfy these requirements.
Part 3 also makes provision in relation to changes to the membership of a
scheme in the middle of a relevant year.

  Part 4 (regulations 22 to 27) sets out the powers and duties of SEPA under
these Regulations. Part 5 (regulations 28 and 29) provides for a number of
offences and penalties for breach of the requirements imposed by these
Regulations.

  A partial Business Regulatory Impact Assessment of the effect that this
instrument will have on the costs of business has been placed in the Scottish
Parliament Information Centre. Copies can be obtained from the Scottish
Government, Environmental Quality Division, Area 3H South, Victoria Quay,
Edinburgh EH6 6QQ, and online at  legislation.gov.uk .

