Title: The Parliamentary Constituencies Order 2023
Date: 2024-06-24
Description: This Order gives effect to—the report of the Boundary Commission for England published 28th June 2023, which contains the Commission’s recommendations for parliamentary constituencies in England,the report of the Boundary Commission for Northern Ireland published 28th June 2023, which contains the Commission’s recommendations for parliamentary constituencies in Northern Ireland,the report of the Boundary Commission for Scotland published 28th June 2023 and the statement of modifications dated 4th September 2023 and published 14th September 2023, which contains the Commission’s recommendations for parliamentary constituencies in Scotland, andthe report of the Boundary Commission for Wales published 28th June 2023, which contains the Commission’s recommendations for parliamentary constituencies in Wales.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2023/1230

## The Parliamentary Constituencies Order 2023

    Representation Of The People   Redistribution Of Seats

  Made   15th November 2023

  Coming into force   29th November 2023

    At the Court at Buckingham Palace, the 15th day of November 2023 Present,
The King’s Most Excellent Majesty in Council           In accordance with
sections 4(1) and (4B) and 4A(6) of the Parliamentary Constituencies Act 1986
(“ the Act ”) , the Secretary of State has submitted to His Majesty in Council
a draft of this Order which gives effect to—     a     the recommendations of
each Boundary Commission, contained in the four reports  submitted in
accordance with section 3(1) of the Act  and laid before Parliament by the
Speaker of the House of Commons in accordance with section 3(2ZB) of the Act ,
as to the constituencies into which each part of the United Kingdom should be
divided in order to give effect to the rules set out in Schedule 2 to the Act
, and         b     a statement of modifications dated 4th September 2023 ,
submitted by the Boundary Commission for Scotland in accordance with section
4A(2) and laid before Parliament by the Speaker of the House of Commons in
accordance with section 4A(4) of the Act, modifying the recommendations in
that Boundary Commission’s report.               Therefore, His Majesty is
pleased, by and with the advice of His Privy Council, to make the following
Order in exercise of the powers conferred upon Him by section 4(5) of the Act.

### Citation, commencement, extent and interpretation

1

1.1

This Order may be cited as the Parliamentary Constituencies Order 2023.

1.2

This Order comes into force on the fourteenth day after the day on which it is
made.

1.3

This Order extends to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

1.4

In this Order—

1.4.a

the local government areas, community council areas, wards, electoral
divisions and polling districts set out in column 2 of the tables in Schedules
1, 3 and 4 are those areas, wards, divisions and districts as they existed on
1st December 2020, except where otherwise provided for in Schedule 1;

1.4.b

the wards set out in column 2 of the table in Schedule 2 are those wards as
they existed on 1st December 2020.

1.5

In paragraph (4)(a) “ local government area ” has the same meaning as in—

1.5.a

in respect of England and Wales, section 203(1) of the Representation of the
People Act 1983 ;

1.5.b

in respect of Scotland, section 204(1) of that Act .

### Parliamentary constituencies in England

2

England is divided into the parliamentary constituencies—

2.a

which are named in column 1 of the tables in Schedule 1,

2.b

which are designated in that column as being either county constituencies or
borough constituencies, and

2.c

which comprise the areas which are set out in column 2 of those tables
opposite the name of the constituency .

### Parliamentary constituencies in Northern Ireland

3

Northern Ireland is divided into the parliamentary constituencies—

3.a

which are named in column 1 of the Table in Schedule 2,

3.b

which are designated in that column as being either county constituencies or
borough constituencies, and

3.c

which comprise the areas which are set out in column 2 of that Table opposite
the name of the constituency .

### Parliamentary constituencies in Scotland

4

Scotland is divided into the parliamentary constituencies—

4.a

which are named in column 1 of the Table in Schedule 3,

4.b

which are designated in that column as being either county constituencies or
burgh constituencies, and

4.c

which comprise the areas which are set out in column 2 of that Table opposite
the name of the constituency .

### Parliamentary constituencies in Wales

5

Wales is divided into the parliamentary constituencies—

5.a

which are named in column 1 of the Table in Schedule 4,

5.b

which are designated in that column as being either county constituencies or
borough constituencies, and

5.c

which comprise the areas which are set out in column 2 of that Table opposite
the name of the constituency .

### Electoral registers

6

Each electoral registration officer  for the constituencies referred to in
articles 2 to 5 must make such re-arrangement or adaptation of the registers
of parliamentary electors as may be necessary to give effect to this Order.

### Amendment of the Parliamentary Constituencies and Assembly Electoral Regions (Wales) Order 2006

7

In the Parliamentary Constituencies and Assembly Electoral Regions (Wales)
Order 2006 —

7.a

in article 1 (citation, commencement and interpretation), omit paragraph
(3)(b);

7.b

omit article 2 (parliamentary constituencies in Wales);

7.c

in article 4 (electoral registers)—

7.c.i

omit paragraph (a) and the “and” immediately after that paragraph;

7.c.ii

omit “parliamentary or, as the case may be,”;

7.d

in Schedule 1 (name, designation and composition of parliamentary
constituencies and assembly constituencies in Wales)—

7.d.i

in the heading, for “, designation and composition of parliamentary
constituencies and” substitute  “and composition of” ;

7.d.ii

in each table, in the heading for column 1 omit “and Designation”.

### Revocations

8

The following are revoked—

8.a

the Parliamentary Constituencies (Scotland) Order 2005 ;

8.b

the Parliamentary Constituencies (England) Order 2007 ;

8.c

the Parliamentary Constituencies (Northern Ireland) Order 2008 ;

8.d

the Parliamentary Constituencies and Assembly Electoral Regions (Wales)
(Amendment) Order 2008 ;

8.e

the Parliamentary Constituencies (England) (Amendment) Order 2009 .

      Richard Tilbrook   Clerk of the Privy Council

  Name, designation and composition of constituencies in England

Article 2

##### East Midlands region

      Name and designation Composition       (1)       The District of North
Northamptonshire and the wards of that district are those areas as they
existed on 1st April 2021, as described in article 3(1) of, and the table in
Part 1 of the Schedule to, the Northamptonshire (Structural Changes) Order
2020 .             (2)       The District of West Northamptonshire and the
wards of that district are those areas as they existed on 1st April 2021, as
described in article 4(1) of, and the table in Part 2 of the Schedule to, the
Northamptonshire (Structural Changes) Order 2020.               Amber Valley
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Amber
Valley—       Alferton;       Codnor and Wainsgroves;       Heage and
Ambergate;       Heanor and Loscoe;       Heanor East;       Heanor West;
Ironville and Riddings;       Kilburn, Denby and Holbrook;       Langley Mill
and Aldercar;       Ripley;       Ripley and Marehay;       Shipley Park,
Horsley and Horsley Woodhouse;       Somercotes;       Swanwick;
Wingfield.         Ashfield       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the District of Ashfield—       Abbey Hill;       Annesley & Kirkby
Woodhouse;       Ashfields;       Carsic;       Central & New Cross;
Huthwaite & Brierley;       Jacksdale;       Kingsway;       Kirkby Cross &
Portland;       Larwood;       Leamington;       St. Mary’s;       Selston;
Skegby;       Stanton Hill & Teversal;       Summit;       Sutton Junction &
Harlow Wood;       The Dales;       Underwood.       In the District of
Mansfield—       (a) in the Berry Hill ward, polling district BHC ;       (b)
the Bull Farm and Pleasley Hill ward.         Bassetlaw       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Bassetlaw—
Beckingham;       Blyth;       Carlton;       East Retford East;       East
Retford North;       East Retford South;       East Retford West;
Everton;       Harworth;       Langold;       Misterton;       Ranskill;
Sutton;       Welbeck;       Worksop East;       Worksop North;       Worksop
North East;       Worksop North West;       Worksop South;       Worksop South
East.         Bolsover       (county constituency)         The District of
Bolsover.       The following wards of the District of North East Derbyshire—
Holmewood & Heath;       Pilsley & Morton;       Shirland;       Sutton.
Boston and Skegness       (county constituency)         The Borough of Boston.
The following wards of the District of East Lindsey—       Burgh le Marsh;
Chapel St. Leonards;       Croft;       Friskney;       Ingoldmells;       St.
Clement’s;       Scarbrough & Seacroft;       Sibsey & Stickney;
Wainfleet;       Willoughby with Sloothby;       Winthorpe.         Broxtowe
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Broxtowe—
Attenborough & Chilwell East;       Awsworth, Cossall & Trowell;       Beeston
Central;       Beeston North;       Beeston Rylands;       Beeston West;
Bramcote;       Brinsley;       Chilwell West;       Eastwood Hall;
Eastwood Hilltop;       Eastwood St. Mary’s;       Greasley;       Stapleford
North;       Stapleford South East;       Stapleford South West;       Toton &
Chilwell Meadows.         Chesterfield       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Chesterfield—       Brimington North;
Brimington South;       Brockwell;       Dunston;       Hasland;
Hollingwood and Inkersall;       Holmebrook;       Linacre;       Loundsley
Green;       Middlecroft and Poolsbrook;       Moor;       Old Whittington;
Rother;       St. Helen’s;       St. Leonard’s;       Walton;       West.
Corby and East Northamptonshire       (county constituency)         In the
District of North Northamptonshire —       (a) in the Corby Rural ward,
polling districts CRWA, CSCA, CWGA, CWGB and CWGC ;       (b) the Corby West
ward;       (c) in the Irthlingborough ward, polling districts RA, RB, RR, SG,
SZ and UQ ;       (d) the Kingswood ward;       (e) the Lloyds ward;       (f)
the Oakley ward;       (g) the Oundle ward;       (h) the Raunds ward;
(i) the Thrapston ward.         Daventry       (county constituency)
In the District of North Northamptonshire , the Earls Barton ward.       In
the District of West Northamptonshire —       (a) the Braunston and Crick
ward;       (b) the Brixworth ward;       (c) the Daventry East ward;
(d) the Daventry West ward;       (e) the Long Buckby ward;       (f) the
Moulton ward;       (g) in the Silverstone ward, polling districts SAG, SAP,
SAQ, SBJ and SCL ;       (h) the Woodford and Weedon ward.         Derby North
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Derby—
Abbey;       Chaddesden;       Darley;       Derwent;       Littleover;
Mackworth;       Mickleover.         Derby South       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the City of Derby—       Alvaston;       Arboretum;
Blagreaves;       Boulton;       Chellaston;       Normanton;       Sinfin.
Derbyshire Dales       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the Borough of Amber Valley—       Alport;       Crich.       The District of
Derbyshire Dales.       The following wards of the District of South
Derbyshire—       Hatton;       Hilton.         Erewash       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Erewash—
Awsworth Road;       Breaston;       Cotmanhay;       Derby Road East;
Derby Road West;       Draycott & Risley;       Hallam Fields;       Kirk
Hallam & Stanton-by-Dale;       Larklands;       Little Hallam;       Long
Eaton Central;       Nottingham Road;       Sandiacre;       Sawley;
Shipley View;       Wilsthorpe.         Gainsborough       (county
constituency)         The District of West Lindsey.         Gedling
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Gedling—
Bestwood St. Albans;       Carlton;       Carlton Hill;       Cavendish;
Colwick;       Coppice;       Daybrook;       Dumbles;       Ernehale;
Gedling;       Netherfield;       Phoenix;       Plains;       Porchester;
Redhill;       Trent Valley;       Woodthorpe.         Grantham and Bourne
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of North
Kesteven—       Heckington Rural;       Osbournby.       The following wards
of the District of South Kesteven—       Aveland;       Belmont;
Belvoir;       Bourne Austerby;       Bourne East;       Bourne West;
Grantham Arnoldfield;       Grantham Barrowby Gate;       Grantham
Earlesfield;       Grantham Harrowby;       Grantham Springfield;
Grantham St. Vincent’s;       Grantham St. Wulfram’s;       Lincrest;
Loveden Heath;       Morton;       Peascliffe & Ridgeway;       Toller;
Viking.         Harborough, Oadby and Wigston       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of Harborough—       Glen;
Kibworths;       Lubenham;       Market Harborough – Great Bowden & Arden;
Market Harborough – Little Bowden;       Market Harborough – Logan;
Market Harborough – Welland.       The Borough of Oadby and Wigston.
High Peak       (county constituency)     The Borough of High Peak.
Hinckley and Bosworth       (county constituency)         The following wards
of the Borough of Hinckley and Bosworth—       Ambien;       Barlestone,
Nailstone and Osbaston;       Barwell;       Burbage St. Catherines and Lash
Hill;       Burbage Sketchley and Stretton;       Cadeby, Carlton and Market
Bosworth with Shackerstone;       Earl Shilton;       Hinckley Castle;
Hinckley Clarendon;       Hinckley De Montfort;       Hinckley Trinity;
Newbold Verdon with Desford and Peckleton;       Twycross and Witherley with
Sheepy.       The following wards of the District of North West
Leicestershire—       Appleby;       Oakthorpe & Donisthorpe.
Kettering       (county constituency)         In the District of North
Northamptonshire —       (a) the Burton and Broughton ward;       (b) the
Clover Hill ward;       (c) in the Corby Rural ward, polling districts CRWB,
CRWC, CRWD, CRWE, CSCB and CSCC ;       (d) the Desborough ward;       (e) the
Ise ward;       (f) the Northall ward;       (g) the Rothwell and Mawsley
ward;       (h) the Wicksteed ward;       (i) the Windmill ward.
Leicester East       (borough constituency)         In the City of Leicester—
(a) the Belgrave ward;       (b) in the Evington ward, polling districts EVA,
EVB, EVC, EVD and EVE ;       (c) the Humberstone & Hamilton ward;       (d)
the North Evington ward;       (e) the Rushey Mead ward;       (f) the
Thurncourt ward;       (g) the Troon ward.         Leicester South
(borough constituency)         In the City of Leicester—       (a) the Castle
ward;       (b) in the Evington ward, polling district EVF ;       (c) the
Eyres Monsell ward;       (d) the Knighton ward;       (e) the Saffron ward;
(f) the Spinney Hills ward;       (g) the Stoneygate ward;       (h) the
Wycliffe ward.         Leicester West       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Leicester—       Abbey;       Aylestone;
Beaumont Leys;       Braunstone Park & Rowley Fields;       Fosse;
Westcotes;       Western.         Lincoln       (borough constituency)
The City of Lincoln.       The following wards of the District of North
Kesteven—       Bracebridge Heath and Waddington East;       Skellingthorpe.
Loughborough       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Charnwood—       Barrow and Sileby West;       Loughborough Ashby;
Loughborough Dishley and Hathern;       Loughborough Garendon;
Loughborough Hastings;       Loughborough Lemyngton;       Loughborough
Nanpantan;       Loughborough Outwoods;       Loughborough Shelthorpe;
Loughborough Southfields;       Loughborough Storer;       Quorn and
Mountsorrel Castle;       Shepshed East;       Shepshed West;       The Wolds.
Louth and Horncastle       (county constituency)         The following wards
of the District of East Lindsey—       Alford;       Binbrook;       Coningsby
& Mareham;       Fulstow;       Grimoldby;       Hagworthingham;       Halton
Holegate;       Holton-le-Clay & North Thoresby;       Horncastle;
Legbourne;       Mablethorpe;       Marshchapel & Somercotes;       North
Holme;       Priory & St. James’;       Roughton;       St. Margaret’s;
St. Mary’s;       St. Michael’s;       Spilsby;       Sutton on Sea;
Tetford & Donington;       Tetney;       Trinity;       Withern &
Theddlethorpe;       Woodhall Spa;       Wragby.         Mansfield
(county constituency)         In the District of Mansfield—       (a) the
Abbott ward;       (b) in the Berry Hill ward, polling districts BHA and BHB ;
(c) the Brick Kiln ward;       (d) the Broomhill ward;       (e) the Carr Bank
ward;       (f) the Eakring ward;       (g) the Grange Farm ward;       (h)
the Holly ward;       (i) the Hornby ward;       (j) the Kings Walk ward;
(k) the Kingsway ward;       (l) the Ladybrook ward;       (m) the Lindhurst
ward;       (n) the Ling Forest ward;       (o) the Manor ward;       (p) the
Market Warsop ward;       (q) the Maun Valley ward;       (r) the Meden ward;
(s) the Netherfield ward;       (t) the Newgate ward;       (u) the Newlands
ward;       (v) the Oak Tree ward;       (w) the Oakham ward;       (x) the
Park Hall ward;       (y) the Peafields ward;       (z) the Penniment ward;
(aa) the Portland ward;       (bb) the Racecourse ward;       (cc) the Ransom
Wood ward;       (dd) the Sandhurst ward;       (ee) the Sherwood ward;
(ff) the Warsop Carrs ward;       (gg) the Woodhouse ward;       (hh) the
Woodlands ward;       (ii) the Yeoman Hill ward.         Melton and Syston
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Charnwood—
East Goscote;       Queniborough;       Sileby;       Syston East;
Syston West;       Thurmaston;       Wreake Villages.       The Borough of
Melton.         Mid Derbyshire       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the Borough of Amber Valley—       Belper Central;
Belper East;       Belper North;       Belper South;       Duffield;
South West Parishes.       The following wards of the City of Derby—
Allestree;       Oakwood;       Spondon.       The following wards of the
Borough of Erewash—       Little Eaton & Stanley;       Ockbrook & Borrowash;
West Hallam & Dale Abbey.         Mid Leicestershire       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Blaby—
Ellis;       Fairestone;       Forest;       Millfield;       Muxloe;
Ravenhurst and Fosse;       Winstanley.       The following wards of the
Borough of Charnwood—       Anstey;       Birstall Wanlip;       Birstall
Watermead;       Forest Bradgate;       Mountsorrel;       Rothley and
Thurcaston.       The following wards of the Borough of Hinckley and Bosworth—
Groby;       Markfield, Stanton and Fieldhead;       Ratby, Bagworth and
Thornton.         Newark       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the District of Bassetlaw—       Clayworth;       East Markham;
Rampton;       Sturton;       Tuxford and Trent.       The following wards of
the District of Newark & Sherwood—       Balderton North & Coddington;
Balderton South;       Beacon;       Bridge;       Castle;       Collingham;
Devon;       Farndon & Fernwood;       Muskham;       Southwell;       Sutton-
on-Trent;       Trent.       The following wards of the Borough of Rushcliffe—
Bingham East;       Bingham West;       Cranmer;       East Bridgford;
Thoroton.         North East Derbyshire       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Chesterfield—       Barrow Hill and New
Whittington;       Lowgates and Woodthorpe.       The following wards of the
District of North East Derbyshire—       Ashover;       Barlow & Holmesfield;
Brampton & Walton;       Clay Cross North;       Clay Cross South;       Coal
Aston;       Dronfield North;       Dronfield South;       Dronfield
Woodhouse;       Eckington North;       Eckington South & Renishaw;
Gosforth Valley;       Grassmoor;       Killamarsh East;       Killamarsh
West;       North Wingfield Central;       Ridgeway & Marsh Lane;
Tupton;       Unstone;       Wingerworth.         North West Leicestershire
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of North
West Leicestershire—       Ashby Castle;       Ashby Holywell;       Ashby
Ivanhoe;       Ashby Money Hill;       Ashby Willesley;       Ashby Woulds;
Bardon;       Blackfordby;       Broom Leys;       Castle Donington Castle;
Castle Donington Central;       Castle Donington Park;       Castle Rock;
Coalville East;       Coalville West;       Daleacre Hill;       Ellistown &
Battleflat;       Greenhill;       Hermitage;       Holly Hayes;
Hugglescote St. John’s;       Hugglescote St. Mary’s;       Ibstock East;
Ibstock West;       Kegworth;       Long Whatton & Diseworth;       Measham
North;       Measham South;       Ravenstone & Packington;       Sence Valley;
Snibston North;       Snibston South;       Thornborough;       Thringstone;
Valley;       Worthington & Breedon.         Northampton North       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the District of West
Northamptonshire —       Abington and Phippsville;       Boothville and
Parklands;       Castle;       Dallington Spencer;       Headlands;
Kingsthorpe North;       Kingsthorpe South;       St. George;       Talavera.
Northampton South       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the District of West Northamptonshire —       Billing and Rectory Farm;
Delapre and Rushmere;       Duston East       Duston West and St. Crispin;
East Hunsbury and Shelfleys;       Nene Valley;       Riverside Park;
Sixfields.         Nottingham East       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Nottingham—       Berridge;       Castle;
Dales;       Hyson Green & Arboretum;       Mapperley;       St. Ann’s;
Sherwood.         Nottingham North and Kimberley       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Broxtowe—       Kimberley;       Nuthall
East & Strelley;       Watnall & Nuthall West.       The following wards of
the City of Nottingham—       Aspley;       Basford;       Bestwood;
Bulwell;       Bulwell Forest;       Leen Valley.         Nottingham South
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Nottingham—
Bilborough;       Clifton East;       Clifton West;       Lenton & Wollaton
East;       Meadows;       Radford;       Wollaton West.         Rushcliffe
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of
Rushcliffe—       Abbey;       Bunny;       Compton Acres;       Cotgrave;
Cropwell;       Edwalton;       Gamston North;       Gamston South;
Gotham;       Keyworth & Wolds;       Lady Bay;       Leake;       Lutterell;
Musters;       Nevile & Langar;       Radcliffe on Trent;       Ruddington;
Sutton Bonington;       Tollerton;       Trent Bridge.         Rutland and
Stamford       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Harborough—       Billesdon & Tilton;       Nevill;       Thurnby
& Houghton.       The District of Rutland.       The following wards of the
District of South Kesteven—       Casewick;       Castle;       Dole Wood;
Glen;       Isaac Newton;       Stamford All Saints;       Stamford St.
George’s;       Stamford St. John’s;       Stamford St. Mary’s.
Sherwood Forest       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Ashfield—       Hucknall Central;       Hucknall North;
Hucknall South;       Hucknall West.       The following wards of the Borough
of Gedling—       Calverton;       Newstead Abbey.       The following wards
of the District of Newark & Sherwood—       Bilsthorpe;       Boughton;
Dover Beck;       Edwinstowe & Clipstone;       Farnsfield;       Lowdham;
Ollerton;       Rainworth North & Rufford;       Rainworth South & Blidworth.
Sleaford and North Hykeham       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the District of North Kesteven—       Ashby de la Launde and
Cranwell;       Bassingham and Brant Broughton;       Billinghay, Martin and
North Kyme;       Branston;       Cliff Villages;       Eagle, Swinderby and
Witham St. Hughs;       Heighington and Washingborough;       Kirkby la Thorpe
and South Kyme;       Leasingham and Rauceby;       Metheringham;       North
Hykeham Forum;       North Hykeham Memorial;       North Hykeham Mill;
North Hykeham Moor;       North Hykeham Witham;       Ruskington;
Sleaford Castle;       Sleaford Holdingham;       Sleaford Navigation;
Sleaford Quarrington and Mareham;       Sleaford Westholme;       Waddington
West.         South Derbyshire       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of South Derbyshire—       Aston;       Church
Gresley;       Etwall;       Linton;       Melbourne;       Midway;
Newhall and Stanton;       Repton;       Seales;       Stenson;
Swadlincote;       Willington and Findern;       Woodville.         South
Holland and The Deepings       (county constituency)         The District of
South Holland.       The following wards of the District of South Kesteven—
Deeping St. James;       Market & West Deeping.         South Leicestershire
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of Blaby—
Blaby South;       Cosby with South Whetstone;       Countesthorpe;
Croft Hill;       Enderby and St. John’s;       Narborough and Littlethorpe;
Normanton;       North Whetstone;       Pastures;       Saxondale;
Stanton and Flamville.       The following wards of the District of
Harborough—       Bosworth;       Broughton Astley-Primethorpe & Sutton;
Broughton Astley South & Leire;       Dunton;       Fleckney;
Lutterworth East;       Lutterworth West;       Misterton;       Ullesthorpe.
South Northamptonshire       (county constituency)         In the District of
North Northamptonshire , in the Irchester ward, polling districts WAA, WAB,
WPA, WPB and WPC .       In the District of West Northamptonshire —       (a)
the Brackley ward;       (b) the Bugbrooke ward;       (c) the Deanshanger
ward;       (d) the Hackleton and Grange Park ward;       (e) the Middleton
Cheney ward;       (f) in the Silverstone ward. polling districts SAA, SAB,
SAN, SAT, SBP, SBX, SCV, SDG, SDW, SDZ, SEF, SEW, SFE, SFF, SFN, SFO, SFR,
SFW, SGD, SGF and SGK ;       (g) the Towcester and Roade ward.
Wellingborough and Rushden       (county constituency)         In the District
of North Northamptonshire —       (a) the Brickhill and Queensway ward;
(b) the Croyland and Swanspool ward;       (c) the Finedon ward;       (d) the
Hatton Park ward;       (e) the Higham Ferrers ward;       (f) in the
Irchester ward, polling districts WIA and WIB ;       (g) in the
Irthlingborough ward, polling districts SD and SF ;       (h) the Rushden
Pemberton West ward;       (i) the Rushden South ward.

##### Eastern region

      Name and designation Composition       Basildon and Billericay
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Basildon—
Billericay East;       Billericay West;       Burstead;       Crouch;
Fryerns;       Laindon Park;       Lee Chapel North;       St. Martin’s;
Vange.         Bedford       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the Borough of Bedford—       Brickhill;       Castle;
Cauldwell;       De Parys;       Goldington;       Harpur;       Kempston
Central and East;       Kempston North;       Kempston South;       Kempston
West;       Kingsbrook;       Newnham;       Putnoe;       Queens Park.
Braintree       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Braintree—       Bocking Blackwater;       Bocking North;
Bocking South;       Braintree Central & Beckers Green;       Braintree South;
Braintree West;       Bumpstead;       Gosfield & Greenstead Green;
Great Notley & Black Notley;       Halstead St. Andrew’s;       Halstead
Trinity;       Hedingham;       Rayne;       Stour Valley North;       Stour
Valley South;       Three Fields;       Yeldham.       The following wards of
the District of Uttlesford—       Felsted & Stebbing;       The Sampfords.
Brentwood and Ongar       (county constituency)         The Borough of
Brentwood.       The following wards of the District of Epping Forest—
Chipping Ongar, Greensted and Marden Ash;       High Ongar, Willingale and The
Rodings;       Lambourne;       Moreton and Fyfield;       North Weald
Bassett;       Passingford;       Shelley.         Broadland and Fakenham
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of
Broadland—       Acle;       Aylsham;       Blofield with South Walsham;
Brundall;       Burlingham;       Buxton;       Coltishall;       Eynesford;
Great Witchingham;       Hevingham;       Horsford and Felthorpe;
Marshes;       Plumstead;       Reepham;       Spixworth with St. Faiths;
Taverham North;       Taverham South;       Wroxham.       The following wards
of the District of North Norfolk—       Lancaster North;       Lancaster
South;       Stibbard;       The Raynhams;       Walsingham.
Broxbourne       (county constituency)         The Borough of Broxbourne.
The following wards of the District of East Hertfordshire—       Great Amwell;
Hertford Heath;       Stanstead Abbots.         Bury St Edmunds and Stowmarket
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of Mid
Suffolk—       Chilton;       Combs Ford;       Elmswell & Woolpit;
Onehouse;       Rattlesden;       St. Peter’s;       Stow Thorney;
Thurston.       The following wards of the District of West Suffolk—
Abbeygate;       Bardwell;       Barningham;       Eastgate;       Ixworth;
Minden;       Moreton Hall;       Pakenham & Troston;       Rougham;       St.
Olaves;       Southgate;       Stanton;       The Fornhams & Great Barton;
Tollgate;       Westgate.         Cambridge       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the City of Cambridge—       Abbey;       Arbury;
Castle;       Coleridge;       East Chesterton;       King’s Hedges;
Market;       Newnham;       Petersfield;       Romsey;       Trumpington;
West Chesterton.         Castle Point       (borough constituency)         In
the Borough of Basildon, in the Pitsea South East ward, polling district DN .
The Borough of Castle Point.         Central Suffolk and North Ipswich
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of East
Suffolk—       Carlford & Fynn Valley;       Framlingham;       Kesgrave;
Rushmere St. Andrew;       Wickham Market.       The following wards of the
Borough of Ipswich—       Castle Hill;       Whitehouse;       Whitton.
The following wards of the District of Mid Suffolk—       Battisford &
Ringshall;       Blakenham;       Bramford;       Claydon & Barham;
Debenham;       Needham Market;       Stonham.         Chelmsford
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Chelmsford—
Chelmer Village and Beaulieu Park;       Goat Hall;       Great Baddow East;
Great Baddow West;       Marconi;       Moulsham and Central;       Moulsham
Lodge;       Patching Hall;       St. Andrews;       Springfield North;
The Lawns;       Trinity;       Waterhouse Farm.         Clacton       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Tendring—
Bluehouse;       Burrsville;       Cann Hall;       Coppins;       Eastcliff
Frinton;       Homelands;       Kirby Cross;       Kirby-le-Soken & Hamford;
Little Clacton;       Pier;       St. Bartholomew’s;       St. James;
St. John’s;       St. Osyth;       St. Paul’s;       The Bentleys & Frating;
The Oakleys & Wix;       Thorpe, Beaumont & Great Holland;       Walton;
Weeley & Tendring;       West Clacton & Jaywick Sands.         Colchester
(borough constituency)         In the City of Colchester—       (a) the
Berechurch ward;       (b) the Castle ward;       (c) the Greenstead ward;
(d) the Highwoods ward;       (e) in the Lexden & Braiswick ward, polling
districts AQ, AS and AT ;       (f) the Mile End ward;       (g) the New Town
& Christ Church ward;       (h) the Prettygate ward;       (i) the St. Anne’s
& St. John’s ward;       (j) the Shrub End ward.         Dunstable and
Leighton Buzzard       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the District of Central Bedfordshire—       Dunstable–Central;
Dunstable–Icknield;       Dunstable–Manshead;       Dunstable–Northfields;
Dunstable–Watling;       Heath and Reach;       Houghton Hall;       Leighton
Buzzard North;       Leighton Buzzard South;       Linslade;       Parkside;
Tithe Farm.         Ely and East Cambridgeshire       (county constituency)
The District of East Cambridgeshire.       The following wards of the District
of South Cambridgeshire—       Cottenham;       Milton & Waterbeach.
Epping Forest       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Epping Forest—       Broadley Common, Epping Upland and Nazeing;
Buckhurst Hill East;       Buckhurst Hill West;       Chigwell Row;
Chigwell Village;       Epping Hemnall;       Epping Lindsey and Thornwood
Common;       Grange Hill;       Loughton Alderton;       Loughton Broadway;
Loughton Fairmead;       Loughton Forest;       Loughton Roding;
Loughton St. John’s;       Loughton St. Mary’s;       Theydon Bois;
Waltham Abbey High Beach;       Waltham Abbey Honey Lane;       Waltham Abbey
North East;       Waltham Abbey Paternoster;       Waltham Abbey South West.
Great Yarmouth       (county constituency)     The Borough of Great Yarmouth.
Harlow       (county constituency)         The following wards of the District
of Epping Forest—       Hastingwood, Matching and Sheering Village;
Lower Nazeing;       Lower Sheering;       Roydon.       The District of
Harlow.       The following wards of the District of Uttlesford—       Broad
Oak & the Hallingburys;       Hatfield Heath.         Harpenden and
Berkhamsted       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Dacorum—       Aldbury and Wigginton;       Ashridge;
Berkhamsted Castle;       Berkhamsted East;       Berkhamsted West;
Northchurch;       Tring Central;       Tring East;       Tring West and
Rural;       Watling.       The following wards of the City of St. Albans—
Harpenden East;       Harpenden North;       Harpenden South;       Harpenden
West;       Redbourn;       Sandridge;       Wheathampstead.         Harwich
and North Essex       (county constituency)         In the City of Colchester—
(a) in the Lexden & Braiswick ward, polling districts EJ, ET and EU ;
(b) the Mersea & Pyefleet ward;       (c) the Old Heath & The Hythe ward;
(d) the Rural North ward;       (e) the Wivenhoe ward.       The following
wards of the District of Tendring—       Alresford & Elmstead;       Ardleigh
& Little Bromley;       Brightlingsea;       Dovercourt All Saints;
Dovercourt Bay;       Dovercourt Tollgate;       Dovercourt Vines & Parkeston;
Harwich & Kingsway;       Lawford, Manningtree & Mistley;       Stour Valley.
Hemel Hempstead       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Dacorum—       Adeyfield East;       Adeyfield West;       Apsley
and Corner Hall;       Bennetts End;       Bovingdon, Flaunden and
Chipperfield;       Boxmoor;       Chaulden and Warners End;       Gadebridge;
Grovehill;       Hemel Hempstead Town;       Highfield;       Leverstock
Green;       Nash Mills;       Woodhall Farm.         Hertford and Stortford
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of East
Hertfordshire—       Bishop’s Stortford All Saints;       Bishop’s Stortford
Central;       Bishop’s Stortford Meads;       Bishop’s Stortford Silverleys;
Bishop’s Stortford South;       Hertford Bengeo;       Hertford Castle;
Hertford Kingsmead;       Hertford Sele;       Hunsdon;       Much Hadham;
Sawbridgeworth;       Ware Chadwell;       Ware Christchurch;       Ware St.
Mary’s;       Ware Trinity.         Hertsmere       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Hertsmere—       Aldenham East;
Aldenham West;       Bentley Heath & The Royds;       Borehamwood Brookmeadow;
Borehamwood Cowley Hill;       Borehamwood Hillside;       Borehamwood
Kenilworth;       Bushey Heath;       Bushey Park;       Bushey St. James;
Elstree;       Potters Bar Furzefield;       Potters Bar Oakmere;
Potters Bar Parkfield;       Shenley.       In the Borough of Welwyn Hatfield,
the Northaw & Cuffley ward.         Hitchin       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of Central Bedfordshire—       Arlesey;
Shefford;       Stotfold and Langford.       The following wards of the
District of North Hertfordshire—       Cadwell;       Chesfield;       Hitchin
Bearton;       Hitchin Highbury;       Hitchin Oughton;       Hitchin Priory;
Hitchin Walsworth;       Hitchwood, Offa and Hoo;       Kimpton.
Huntingdon       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Huntingdonshire—       Alconbury;       Brampton;       Buckden;
Godmanchester & Hemingford Abbots;       Great Staughton;       Hemingford
Grey & Houghton;       Holywell-cum-Needingworth;       Huntingdon East;
Huntingdon North;       Kimbolton;       St. Ives East;       St. Ives South;
St. Ives West;       Sawtry;       Somersham;       The Stukeleys;
Warboys.         Ipswich       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the Borough of Ipswich—       Alexandra;       Bixley;       Bridge;
Gainsborough;       Gipping;       Holywells;       Priory Heath;
Rushmere;       St. John’s;       St. Margaret’s;       Sprites;       Stoke
Park;       Westgate.         Lowestoft       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of East Suffolk—       Beccles &
Worlingham;       Carlton & Whitton;       Carlton Colville;       Gunton &
St. Margarets;       Harbour & Normanston;       Kessingland;       Kirkley &
Pakefield;       Lothingland;       Oulton Broad.         Luton North
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Luton—
Barnfield;       Bramingham;       Challney;       Icknield;       Leagrave;
Lewsey;       Limbury;       Northwell;       Saints;       Stopsley;
Sundon Park.         Luton South and South Bedfordshire       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Central
Bedfordshire—       Caddington;       Eaton Bray.       The following wards of
the Borough of Luton—       Biscot;       Crawley;       Dallow;       Farley;
High Town;       Round Green;       South;       Wigmore.         Maldon
(county constituency)         The following wards of the City of Chelmsford—
Bicknacre and East and West Hanningfield;       Galleywood;       Little
Baddow, Danbury and Sandon;       Rettendon and Runwell;       South
Hanningfield, Stock and Margaretting;       South Woodham–Chetwood and
Collingwood;       South Woodham–Elmwood and Woodville.       The following
wards of the District of Maldon—       Althorne;       Burnham-on-Crouch
North;       Burnham-on-Crouch South;       Heybridge East;       Heybridge
West;       Maldon East;       Maldon North;       Maldon South;       Maldon
West;       Mayland;       Purleigh;       Southminster;       Tillingham.
Mid Bedfordshire       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the Borough of Bedford—       Elstow and Stewartby;       Wilshamstead;
Wootton.       The following wards of the District of Central Bedfordshire—
Ampthill;       Aspley and Woburn;       Barton-le-Clay;       Cranfield and
Marston Moretaine;       Flitwick;       Houghton Conquest and Haynes;
Silsoe and Shillington;       Toddington;       Westoning, Flitton and
Greenfield.         Mid Norfolk       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Breckland—       All Saints & Wayland;
Attleborough Burgh & Haverscroft;       Attleborough Queens & Besthorpe;
Dereham Neatherd;       Dereham Toftwood;       Dereham Withburga;
Hermitage;       Launditch;       Lincoln;       Mattishall;       Necton;
Saham Toney;       Shipdham-with-Scarning;       The Buckenhams & Banham;
Upper Wensum;       Watton.       The following wards of the District of South
Norfolk—       Hingham & Deopham;       Wicklewood.         North Bedfordshire
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Bedford—
Bromham and Biddenham;       Clapham;       Eastcotts;       Great Barford;
Harrold;       Kempston Rural;       Oakley;       Riseley;       Sharnbrook;
Wyboston.       The following wards of the District of Central Bedfordshire—
Biggleswade North;       Biggleswade South;       Northill;       Potton;
Sandy.         North East Cambridgeshire       (county constituency)     The
District of Fenland.     North East Hertfordshire       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of East Hertfordshire—       Braughing;
Buntingford;       Hertford Rural North;       Hertford Rural South;
Little Hadham;       Mundens and Cottered;       Puckeridge;       Thundridge
& Standon;       Walkern;       Watton-at-Stone.       The following wards of
the District of North Hertfordshire—       Arbury;       Baldock East;
Baldock Town;       Ermine;       Letchworth East;       Letchworth Grange;
Letchworth South East;       Letchworth South West;       Letchworth Wilbury;
Royston Heath;       Royston Meridian;       Royston Palace;       Weston and
Sandon.         North Norfolk       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of North Norfolk—       Bacton;       Beeston
Regis & The Runtons;       Briston;       Coastal;       Cromer Town;
Erpingham;       Gresham;       Happisburgh;       Hickling;       Holt;
Hoveton & Tunstead;       Mundesley;       North Walsham East;       North
Walsham Market Cross;       North Walsham West;       Poppyland;       Priory;
Roughton;       St. Benet’s;       Sheringham North;       Sheringham South;
Stalham;       Stody;       Suffield Park;       Trunch;       Wells with
Holkham;       Worstead.         North West Cambridgeshire       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Huntingdonshire—
Ramsey;       Stilton, Folksworth & Washingley;       Yaxley.       The
following wards of the City of Peterborough—       Barnack;       Fletton &
Stanground;       Fletton & Woodston;       Glinton & Castor;       Hampton
Vale;       Hargate & Hempsted;       Orton Longueville;       Orton
Waterville;       Stanground South;       Wittering.         North West Essex
(county constituency)         The following wards of the City of Chelmsford—
Boreham and The Leighs;       Broomfield and The Walthams;       Chelmsford
Rural West;       Writtle.       The following wards of the District of
Uttlesford—       Ashdon;       Clavering;       Debden & Wimbish;
Elsenham & Henham;       Flitch Green & Little Dunmow;       Great Dunmow
North;       Great Dunmow South & Barnston;       High Easter & the Rodings;
Littlebury, Chesterford & Wenden Lofts;       Newport;       Saffron Walden
Audley;       Saffron Walden Castle;       Saffron Walden Shire;
Stansted North;       Stansted South & Birchanger;       Stort Valley;
Takeley;       Thaxted & the Eastons.         North West Norfolk       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of King’s Lynn and
West Norfolk—       Bircham with Rudhams;       Brancaster;       Burnham
Market & Docking;       Clenchwarton;       Dersingham;       Fairstead;
Gayton & Grimston;       Gaywood Chase;       Gaywood Clock;       Gaywood
North Bank;       Heacham;       Hunstanton;       Massingham with Castle
Acre;       North Lynn;       St. Margaret’s with St. Nicholas;
Snettisham;       South & West Lynn;       Springwood;       Terrington;
The Woottons;       Walsoken, West Walton & Walpole;       West Winch.
Norwich North       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Broadland—       Drayton North;       Drayton South;
Hellesdon North West;       Hellesdon South East;       Old Catton and
Sprowston West;       Sprowston Central;       Sprowston East;       Thorpe
St. Andrew North West;       Thorpe St. Andrew South East.       The following
wards of the City of Norwich—       Catton Grove;       Crome;       Mile
Cross;       Sewell.         Norwich South       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the City of Norwich—       Bowthorpe;       Eaton;
Lakenham;       Mancroft;       Nelson;       Thorpe Hamlet;       Town Close;
University       Wensum.       In the District of South Norfolk, the New
Costessey ward.         Peterborough       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Peterborough—       Bretton;       Central;
Dogsthorpe;       East;       Eye, Thorney & Newborough;       Gunthorpe;
North;       Park;       Paston & Walton;       Ravensthorpe;
Werrington;       West.         Rayleigh and Wickford       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Basildon—
Wickford Castledon;       Wickford North;       Wickford Park.       The
following wards of the District of Rochford—       Downhall & Rawreth;
Hawkwell East;       Hawkwell West;       Hockley;       Hockley & Ashingdon;
Hullbridge;       Lodge;       Sweyne Park & Grange;       Trinity;
Wheatley.         South Basildon and East Thurrock       (county constituency)
In the Borough of Basildon—       (a) the Langdon Hills ward;       (b) the
Nethermayne ward;       (c) the Pitsea North West ward;       (d) in the
Pitsea South East ward, polling districts DO, DP, DQ and DR .       The
following wards of the Borough of Thurrock—       Chadwell St. Mary;
Corringham and Fobbing;       East Tilbury;       Orsett;       Stanford East
and Corringham Town;       Stanford-le-Hope West;       The Homesteads.
South Cambridgeshire       (county constituency)         The following wards
of the City of Cambridge—       Cherry Hinton;       Queen Edith’s.       The
following wards of the District of South Cambridgeshire—       Balsham;
Barrington;       Bassingbourn;       Duxford;       Fen Ditton & Fulbourn;
Foxton;       Gamlingay;       Hardwick;       Harston & Comberton;
Linton;       Melbourn;       Sawston;       Shelford;       The Mordens;
Whittlesford.         South Norfolk       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of South Norfolk—       Brooke;       Central
Wymondham;       Cringleford;       Easton;       Forncett;       Hempnall;
Hethersett;       Loddon & Chedgrave;       Mulbarton & Stoke Holy Cross;
Newton Flotman;       North Wymondham;       Old Costessey;       Poringland,
Framinghams & Trowse;       Rockland;       South Wymondham;       Stratton;
Thurlton.         South Suffolk       (county constituency)     The District
of Babergh.     South West Hertfordshire       (county constituency)
In the Borough of Dacorum, the Kings Langley ward.       The District of Three
Rivers.         South West Norfolk       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Breckland—       Ashill;       Bedingfeld;
Forest;       Guiltcross;       Harling & Heathlands;       Nar Valley;
Swaffham;       Thetford Boudica;       Thetford Burrell;       Thetford
Castle;       Thetford Priory.       The following wards of the Borough of
King’s Lynn and West Norfolk—       Airfield;       Denver;       Downham Old
Town;       East Downham;       Emneth & Outwell;       Feltwell;
Methwold;       North Downham;       South Downham;       Tilney, Mershe Lande
& Wiggenhall;       Upwell & Delph;       Watlington;       Wissey.
Southend East and Rochford       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the District of Rochford—       Foulness & The Wakerings;       Roche
North & Rural;       Roche South.       The following wards of the City of
Southend-on-Sea—       Kursaal;       Milton;       Shoeburyness;
Southchurch;       Thorpe;       Victoria;       West Shoebury.
Southend West and Leigh       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the City of Southend-on-Sea—       Belfairs;       Blenheim Park;
Chalkwell;       Eastwood Park;       Leigh;       Prittlewell;       St.
Laurence;       St. Luke’s;       West Leigh;       Westborough.         St
Albans       (county constituency)         The following wards of the City of
St. Albans—       Ashley;       Batchwood;       Clarence;       Colney Heath;
Cunningham;       London Colney;       Marshalswick North;       Marshalswick
South;       Park Street;       St. Peters;       St. Stephen;       Sopwell;
Verulam.         St Neots and Mid Cambridgeshire       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of Huntingdonshire—       Fenstanton;
Great Paxton;       St. Neots East;       St. Neots Eatons;       St. Neots
Eynesbury;       St. Neots Priory Park & Little Paxton.       The following
wards of the District of South Cambridgeshire—       Bar Hill;
Caldecote;       Cambourne;       Caxton & Papworth;       Girton;
Histon & Impington;       Longstanton;       Over & Willingham;
Swavesey.         Stevenage       (county constituency)         In the
District of East Hertfordshire, the Datchworth & Aston ward.       The
following wards of the District of North Hertfordshire—       Codicote;
Knebworth.       The Borough of Stevenage.         Suffolk Coastal
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of East
Suffolk—       Aldeburgh & Leiston;       Deben;       Eastern Felixstowe;
Kelsale & Yoxford;       Martlesham & Purdis Farm;       Melton;       Orwell
& Villages;       Rendlesham & Orford;       Saxmundham;       Southwold;
Western Felixstowe;       Woodbridge;       Wrentham, Wangford & Westleton.
Thurrock       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Thurrock—       Aveley and Uplands;       Belhus;       Chafford
and North Stifford;       Grays Riverside;       Grays Thurrock;       Little
Thurrock Blackshots;       Little Thurrock Rectory;       Ockendon;
South Chafford;       Stifford Clays;       Tilbury Riverside and Thurrock
Park;       Tilbury St. Chads;       West Thurrock and South Stifford.
Watford       (borough constituency)         In the Borough of Hertsmere, the
Bushey North ward.       The Borough of Watford.         Waveney Valley
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of East
Suffolk—       Bungay & Wainford;       Halesworth & Blything.       The
following wards of the District of Mid Suffolk—       Bacton;       Eye;
Fressingfield;       Gislingham;       Haughley, Stowupland & Wetherden;
Hoxne & Worlingworth;       Mendlesham;       Palgrave;       Rickinghall;
Stradbroke & Laxfield;       Walsham-le-Willows.       The following wards of
the District of South Norfolk—       Beck Vale, Dickleburgh & Scole;
Bressingham & Burston;       Bunwell;       Diss & Roydon;       Ditchingham &
Earsham;       Harleston.         Welwyn Hatfield       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Welwyn Hatfield—       Brookmans Park &
Little Heath;       Haldens;       Handside;       Hatfield Central;
Hatfield East;       Hatfield South West;       Hatfield Villages;
Hollybush;       Howlands;       Panshanger;       Peartree;       Sherrards;
Welham Green & Hatfield South;       Welwyn East;       Welwyn West.
West Suffolk       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
District of West Suffolk—       Barrow;       Brandon Central;       Brandon
East;       Brandon West;       Chedburgh & Chevington;       Clare, Hundon &
Kedington;       Exning;       Haverhill Central;       Haverhill East;
Haverhill North;       Haverhill South;       Haverhill South East;
Haverhill West;       Horringer;       Iceni;       Kentford & Moulton;
Lakenheath;       Manor;       Mildenhall Great Heath;       Mildenhall
Kingsway & Market;       Mildenhall Queensway;       Newmarket East;
Newmarket North;       Newmarket West;       Risby;       The Rows;
Whepstead & Wickhambrook;       Withersfield.         Witham       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Braintree—
Coggeshall;       Hatfield Peverel & Terling;       Kelvedon & Feering;
Silver End & Cressing;       The Colnes;       Witham Central;       Witham
North;       Witham South;       Witham West.       The following wards of the
City of Colchester—       Marks Tey & Layer;       Stanway;       Tiptree.
The following wards of the District of Maldon—       Great Totham;
Tollesbury;       Tollesbury D’arcy;       Wickham Bishops and Woodham.

##### London region

      Name and designation Composition       (1)       The wards of the London
Borough of Brent are those areas as they existed on 4th May 2022, as described
in article 3 of, and the table in the Schedule to, the London Borough of Brent
(Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (2)       The wards of the London
Borough of Hounslow are those areas as they existed on 4th May 2022, as
described in article 3 of, and the table in the Schedule to, the London
Borough of Hounslow (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (3)       The
wards of the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames are those areas as they
existed on 4th May 2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to,
the London Borough of Richmond upon Thames (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .
(4)       “Darwin ward area A” is that part of polling district DA5 to the
west of a line starting from the point on the Darwin ward boundary on Jail
Lane opposite the entrance to Tye End Farm and then drawn in a northerly
direction from that point to the western boundary of the Charles Darwin
School, Jail Lane, Biggin Hill, Westerham TN16 3AU; and then north and west
following that western boundary to the point where that western boundary meets
the Darwin ward boundary .             (5)       “Darwin ward area B” is that
part of polling district DA7: (a) to the north of a line starting from the
point on the Darwin ward boundary west of Ordnance Survey national grid
reference TQ 42492 57782 and then drawn east from that point on the ward
boundary to that grid reference, then east following field boundaries to
Ordnance Survey national grid reference TQ 42656 57840; then to Ordnance
Survey national grid reference TQ 42657 57839 where the field boundary meets
footpath FP279, and then east following that footpath to a point in the centre
of the A233 opposite the point where the footpath meets that road (“point
FR”); and (b) to the west of a line starting from point FR and then drawn in a
northerly direction along the centre of the A233 to a point opposite the south
corner of the property of no. 309 Main Road, Biggin Hill, Westerham TN16 3JJ,
then north to that corner, then following the east, north and west boundaries
of that property, then south from the southwest corner of that boundary to a
point in the centre of the A233 opposite that corner, then in a north-westerly
direction along the centre of the A233 to a point opposite the southeast
corner of no. 307 Main Road, then north to that corner, then north along the
east boundary of no. 307 Main Road and then west along the northern boundaries
of nos. 283, 285, 287, 289, 291, 293, 295, 297, 299, 301, 303, 303a, 305, 305a
and 307 Main Road to the Darwin ward boundary .             (6)       The
wards of the London Borough of Sutton are those areas as they existed on 4th
May 2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to, the London
Borough of Sutton (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (7)       The
wards of the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham are those areas as they
existed on 4th May 2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to,
the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .
(8)       The wards of the London Borough of Barnet are those areas as they
existed on 4th May 2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to,
the London Borough of Barnet (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (9)
The wards of the City of Westminster are those areas as they existed on 4th
May 2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to, the City of
Westminster (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (10)       “St.
Andrew’s area A” is that part of polling district ST5 that is west of a line
starting from a point on the southern boundary of St. Andrew’s ward in the
centre of Abbs Cross Lane and then drawn in a northerly direction along the
centre of Abbs Cross Lane to a point opposite the northeast corner of the
property of no. 3 Warren Drive, Hornchurch RM12 4QZ. then west to that corner,
then west following the northern boundaries of nos. 3, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15,
17, 19, 21, 23, 25, 27, 29, 31, 33, 35, 37, 39, 41, 43, 45, 47, 49, 51, 53,
55, 57, 59, 61, 63, 65, 67, 69, 71, 73, 75, 77, 79, 81, 83 and 85 Warren Drive
to the northwest corner of the boundary of no. 85 Warren Drive, then west to a
point opposite that corner in the centre of the unnamed road to the immediate
west of no. 85 Warren Drive, then north along the centre of that road to the
St. Andrew’s ward boundary .             (11)       The wards of the London
Borough of Ealing are those areas as they existed on 4th May 2022, as
described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to, the London Borough of
Ealing (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (12)       The wards of
the London Borough of Enfield are those areas as they existed on 4th May 2022,
as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to, the London Borough of
Enfield (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (13)       The wards of
the London Borough of Camden are those areas as they existed on 4th May 2022,
as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to, the London Borough of
Camden (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (14)       The wards of
the London Borough of Haringey are those areas as they existed on 4th May
2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to, the London Borough
of Haringey (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (15)       The wards
of the London Borough of Harrow are those areas as they existed on 4th May
2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to, the London Borough
of Harrow (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (16)       The wards of
the London Borough of Hillingdon are those areas as they existed on 4th May
2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to, the London Borough
of Hillingdon (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .             (17)       “Emerson
Park area A” is the part of polling district EM4 to the west of a line
starting from a point on the Emerson Park ward boundary opposite the southwest
corner of no. 28a Ardleigh Green Road, Hornchurch, RM11 2LQ and drawn east to
that corner, then east following the southern boundary of no. 28a Ardleigh
Green Road to the southeast corner of that property, then north from that
southeast corner following the eastern boundaries of nos. 28a, 28, 30, 32, 34,
36, 38 and 40 Ardleigh Green Road to the northeast corner of the boundary of
no. 40 Ardleigh Green Road, then north from that northeast corner following
the western boundary of no. 4 Nelmes Way, Hornchurch, RM11 2QZ to the
northwest corner of that boundary, then north from that corner to the Emerson
Park ward boundary.             (18)       “Emerson Park area B” is the part
of polling district EM4 to the west of a line starting from a point on the
Emerson Park ward boundary opposite the southwest corner of no. 2 Ardleigh
Green Road, Hornchurch, RM 11 2LW then drawn east to that corner, then east
following the southern boundary of no. 2 Ardleigh Green Road to the southeast
corner of that boundary, then north following the eastern boundaries of nos.
2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, 16, 18, 20, 20a, 22, 24 and 26 Ardleigh Green Road to
the northeast corner of no. 26 Ardleigh Green Road, then west following the
northern boundary of no. 26 Ardleigh Green Road to the northwest corner of
that boundary and then west to the Emerson Park ward boundary.
(19)       “Emerson Park area C” is the part of polling district EM4 to the
west of a line starting from a point on the Emerson Park ward boundary in the
centre of the junction of Ardleigh Green Road, Slewins Lane and Butts Green
Road and then drawn in a southerly direction along the centre of Butts Green
Road to a point opposite the southwest corner of the property of the Church of
Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, 64 Butts Green Road, Hornchurch RM11 2JN,
then east following the southern boundary of that property to the southeast
corner of that boundary, then north following the eastern boundary of that
property to the northeast corner of that boundary, then north to the southeast
corner of the property of no. 4 Woodlands Avenue, then west following the
southern boundaries of nos. 2 and 4 Woodlands Avenue to the boundary of the
property of no. 2a Ardleigh Green Road, then north and then west following the
eastern and northern boundaries of that property to the northwest corner of
that property, and then west to the Emerson Park ward boundary.
(20)       The wards of the London Borough of Islington are those areas as
they existed on 4th May 2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the
Schedule to, the London Borough of Islington (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .
(21)       The wards of the London Borough of Lewisham are those areas as they
existed on 4th May 2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to,
the London Borough of Lewisham (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .
(22)       The wards of the London Borough of Merton are those areas as they
existed on 4th May 2022, as described in article 3 of, and in the Schedule to,
the London Borough of Merton (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .
Barking       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the London
Borough of Barking and Dagenham—       Abbey;       Alibon;       Becontree;
Eastbury;       Gascoigne;       Goresbrook;       Longbridge;
Mayesbrook;       Parsloes;       Thames.         Battersea       (borough
constituency)         In the London Borough of Wandsworth—       (a) the
Balham ward;       (b) in the Fairfield ward, polling district FFD ;       (c)
the Latchmere ward;       (d) the Northcote ward;       (e) the Queenstown
ward;       (f) the St. Mary’s Park ward;       (g) the Shaftesbury ward.
Beckenham and Penge       (borough constituency)         The following wards
of the London Borough of Bromley—       Clock House;       Copers Cope;
Crystal Palace;       Kelsey and Eden Park;       Penge and Cator;
Shortlands;       West Wickham.         Bermondsey and Old Southwark
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Southwark—       Borough & Bankside;       Chaucer;       London Bridge & West
Bermondsey;       North Bermondsey;       Rotherhithe;       St. George’s;
South Bermondsey;       Surrey Docks.         Bethnal Green and Stepney
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Tower Hamlets—       Bethnal Green;       St. Dunstan’s;       St. Peter’s;
Shadwell;       Spitalfields & Banglatown;       Stepney Green;       Weavers;
Whitechapel.         Bexleyheath and Crayford       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the London Borough of Bexley—       Barnehurst;
Bexleyheath;       Crayford;       Crook Log;       Northumberland Heath;
Slade Green & Northend;       West Heath.         Brent East       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of Brent —
Brondesbury Park;       Cricklewood & Mapesbury;       Dollis Hill;
Kingsbury;       Roundwood;       Stonebridge;       Welsh Harp;
Willesden Green.         Brent West       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the London Borough of Brent —       Alperton;
Barnhill;       Kenton;       Northwick Park;       Preston;       Sudbury;
Tokyngton;       Wembley Central;       Wembley Hill;       Wembley Park.
Brentford and Isleworth       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the London Borough of Hounslow —       Brentford East;
Brentford West;       Heston East;       Hounslow Central;       Hounslow
East;       Hounslow Heath;       Hounslow South;       Isleworth;
Osterley & Spring Grove;       Syon & Brentford Lock.       In the London
Borough of Richmond upon Thames, the Whitton ward .         Bromley and Biggin
Hill       (borough constituency)         In the London Borough of Bromley—
(a) the Bickley ward;       (b) the Biggin Hill ward;       (c) the Bromley
Common and Keston ward;       (d) the Bromley Town ward;       (e) in the
Darwin ward, polling district DA1 , Darwin ward area A  and Darwin ward area B
;       (f) the Hayes and Coney Hall ward;       (g) the Plaistow and
Sundridge ward.         Carshalton and Wallington       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the London Borough of Sutton —       Beddington;
Carshalton Central;       Carshalton South & Clockhouse;       Hackbridge;
St. Helier East;       St. Helier West;       South Beddington & Roundshaw;
The Wrythe;       Wallington North;       Wallington South.         Chelsea
and Fulham       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham —       Fulham Reach;       Fulham
Town;       Lillie;       Munster;       Palace & Hurlingham;       Parsons
Green & Sandford;       Sands End;       Walham Green;       West Kensington.
The following wards of the Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea—
Chelsea Riverside;       Redcliffe;       Royal Hospital;       Stanley.
Chingford and Woodford Green       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the London Borough of Redbridge—       Bridge;
Churchfields;       Monkhams.       The following wards of the London Borough
of Waltham Forest—       Chingford Green;       Endlebury;       Hale End and
Highams Park;       Hatch Lane;       Larkswood;       Valley.
Chipping Barnet       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the London Borough of Barnet —       Barnet Vale;       Brunswick Park;
East Barnet;       Edgwarebury;       High Barnet;       Totteridge &
Woodside;       Underhill;       Whetstone.         Cities of London and
Westminster       (borough constituency)         The City of London.       The
following wards of the City of Westminster —       Abbey Road;       Hyde
Park;       Knightsbridge & Belgravia;       Marylebone;       Pimlico North;
Pimlico South;       Regent’s Park;       St. James’s;       Vincent Square;
West End.         Clapham and Brixton Hill       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the London Borough of Lambeth—       Brixton Hill;
Clapham Common;       Clapham Town;       Ferndale;       Larkhall;
Thornton;       Tulse Hill.         Croydon East       (borough constituency)
In the London Borough of Croydon—       (a) the Addiscombe East ward;
(b) the Addiscombe West ward;       (c) the New Addington North ward;
(d) the New Addington South ward;       (e) the Selsdon & Addington Village
ward;       (f) the Selsdon Vale & Forestdale ward;       (g) the Shirley
North ward;       (h) the Shirley South ward;       (i) in the Woodside ward,
polling districts WDS2, WDS3, WDS4, WDS5 and WDS6 .         Croydon South
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Croydon—       Coulsdon Town;       Kenley;       Old Coulsdon;       Park
Hill & Whitgift;       Purley & Woodcote;       Purley Oaks & Riddlesdown;
Sanderstead;       South Croydon.         Croydon West       (borough
constituency)         In the London Borough of Croydon—       (a) the Bensham
Manor ward;       (b) the Broad Green ward;       (c) the Fairfield ward;
(d) the Selhurst ward;       (e) the South Norwood ward;       (f) the Waddon
ward;       (g) the West Thornton ward;       (h) in the Woodside ward,
polling district WDS1 .         Dagenham and Rainham       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of Barking and
Dagenham—       Eastbrook;       Heath;       River;       Valence;
Village;       Whalebone.       In the London Borough of Havering—       (a)
the Elm Park ward;       (b) in the Hacton ward, that part of polling district
HN5 to the west of South End Road ;       (c) the Rainham and Wennington ward;
(d) in the St. Andrew’s ward, St. Andrew’s area A ;       (e) the South
Hornchurch ward.         Dulwich and West Norwood       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the London Borough of Lambeth—       Coldharbour;
Gipsy Hill;       Herne Hill;       Knight’s Hill;       Thurlow Park.
The following wards of the London Borough of Southwark—       Champion Hill;
Dulwich Village;       Dulwich Wood.         Ealing Central and Acton
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Ealing —       Ealing Broadway;       Ealing Common;       East Acton;
Hanger Hill;       North Acton;       South Acton;       Southfield.       The
following wards of the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham —
College Park & Old Oak;       Wormholt.         Ealing North       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of Ealing —
Central Greenford;       Greenford Broadway;       North Greenford;
North Hanwell;       Northolt Mandeville;       Northolt West End;
Perivale;       Pitshanger.         Ealing Southall       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of Ealing —
Dormers Wells;       Hanwell Broadway;       Lady Margaret;       Northfield;
Norwood Green;       Southall Broadway;       Southall Green;       Southall
West;       Walpole.         East Ham       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the London Borough of Newham—       Boleyn;       East Ham
Central;       East Ham North;       East Ham South;       Green Street East;
Little Ilford;       Manor Park;       Wall End.         Edmonton and
Winchmore Hill       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
London Borough of Enfield —       Bush Hill Park;       Edmonton Green;
Grange Park;       Haselbury;       Highfield;       Jubilee;       Lower
Edmonton;       Upper Edmonton;       Winchmore Hill.         Eltham and
Chislehurst       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
London Borough of Bromley—       Chislehurst;       Mottingham and Chislehurst
North.       The following wards of the Royal Borough of Greenwich—
Coldharbour and New Eltham;       Eltham North;       Eltham South;
Eltham West;       Kidbrooke with Hornfair;       Middle Park and Sutcliffe.
Enfield North       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
London Borough of Enfield —       Brimsdown;       Bullsmoor;
Carterhatch;       Enfield Lock;       Ponders End;       Ridgeway;
Southbury;       Town;       Whitewebbs.         Erith and Thamesmead
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Bexley—       Belvedere;       Erith;       Thamesmead East.       The
following wards of the Royal Borough of Greenwich—       Abbey Wood;
Glyndon;       Plumstead;       Shooters Hill;       Thamesmead Moorings.
Feltham and Heston       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the London Borough of Hounslow —       Bedfont;       Cranford;       Feltham
North;       Feltham West;       Hanworth Park;       Hanworth Village;
Heston Central;       Heston West;       Hounslow West.         Finchley and
Golders Green       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
London Borough of Barnet —       Childs Hill;       Cricklewood;       East
Finchley;       Finchley Church End;       Garden Suburb;       Golders Green;
West Finchley;       Woodhouse.         Greenwich and Woolwich       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Royal Borough of Greenwich—
Blackheath Westcombe;       Charlton;       Greenwich West;       Peninsula;
Woolwich Common;       Woolwich Riverside.         Hackney North and Stoke
Newington       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
London Borough of Hackney—       Cazenove;       Clissold;       Hackney
Downs;       King’s Park;       Lea Bridge;       Shacklewell;
Springfield;       Stamford Hill West;       Stoke Newington.         Hackney
South and Shoreditch       (borough constituency)         The following wards
of the London Borough of Hackney—       Dalston;       Hackney Central;
Hackney Wick;       Haggerston;       Homerton;       Hoxton East &
Shoreditch;       Hoxton West;       London Fields;       Victoria.
Hammersmith and Chiswick       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham —       Addison;
Avonmore;       Brook Green;       Coningham;       Grove;       Hammersmith
Broadway;       Ravenscourt;       Shepherd’s Bush Green;       Wendell Park;
White City.       The following wards of the London Borough of Hounslow —
Chiswick Gunnersbury;       Chiswick Homefields;       Chiswick Riverside.
Hampstead and Highgate       (borough constituency)         In the London
Borough of Camden —       (a) the Belsize ward;       (b) the Fortune Green
ward;       (c) the Frognal ward;       (d) the Gospel Oak ward;       (e) the
Hampstead Town ward;       (f) the Highgate ward;       (g) the Kilburn ward;
(h) in the Primrose Hill ward, polling districts TA and TC ;       (i) the
South Hampstead ward;       (j) the West Hampstead ward.       In the London
Borough of Haringey , the Highgate ward.         Harrow East       (borough
constituency)         In the London Borough of Brent , the Queensbury ward.
The following wards of the London Borough of Harrow —       Belmont;
Canons;       Centenary;       Edgware;       Harrow Weald;       Kenton East;
Kenton West;       Stanmore.         Harrow West       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the London Borough of Harrow —       Greenhill;
Harrow on the Hill;       Headstone;       Marlborough;       North Harrow;
Rayners Lane;       Roxbourne;       Roxeth;       Wealdstone North;
Wealdstone South;       West Harrow.         Hayes and Harlington
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Hillingdon —       Belmore;       Charville;       Hayes Town;       Heathrow
Villages;       Pinkwell;       West Drayton;       Wood End;       Yeading.
Hendon       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the London
Borough of Barnet —       Burnt Oak;       Colindale North;       Colindale
South;       Edgware;       Hendon;       Mill Hill;       West Hendon.
Holborn and St. Pancras       (borough constituency)         In the London
Borough of Camden —       (a) the Bloomsbury ward;       (b) the Camden Square
ward;       (c) the Camden Town ward;       (d) the Haverstock ward;       (e)
the Holborn & Covent Garden ward;       (f) the Kentish Town North ward;
(g) the Kentish Town South ward;       (h) the King’s Cross ward;       (i) in
the Primrose Hill ward, polling district TB ;       (j) the Regent’s Park
ward;       (k) the St. Pancras & Somers Town ward.         Hornchurch and
Upminster       (borough constituency)         In the London Borough of
Havering—       (a) the Cranham ward;       (b) in the Emerson Park ward—
(i) polling district EM1;       (ii) that part of polling district EM2 east of
the River Ravensbourne;       (iii) polling district EM3;       (iv) polling
district EM4, except for Emerson Park area A , Emerson Park area B  and
Emerson Park area C ;       (v) polling district EM5 ;       (c) the Gooshays
ward;       (d) in the Hacton ward—       (i) polling districts HN1, HN2, HN3
and HN4;       (ii) that part of polling district HN5 to the east of South End
Road ;       (e) the Harold Wood ward;       (f) the Heaton ward;       (g) in
the St. Andrew’s ward—       (i) polling districts ST1, ST2, ST3 and ST4;
(ii) polling district ST5 except St. Andrew’s area A ;       (h) the Upminster
ward.         Hornsey and Friern Barnet       (borough constituency)
In the London Borough of Barnet , the Friern Barnet ward.       The following
wards of the London Borough of Haringey —       Alexandra Park;       Crouch
End;       Fortis Green;       Harringay;       Hornsey;       Muswell Hill;
Stroud Green.         Ilford North       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the London Borough of Redbridge—       Aldborough;
Barkingside;       Clayhall;       Cranbrook;       Fairlop;       Fullwell;
Hainault;       Valentines.         Ilford South       (borough constituency)
In the London Borough of Barking and Dagenham, the Chadwell Heath ward.
The following wards of the London Borough of Redbridge—       Chadwell;
Clementswood;       Goodmayes;       Ilford Town;       Loxford;
Mayfield;       Newbury;       Seven Kings.         Islington North
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Islington —       Arsenal;       Finsbury Park;       Highbury;
Hillrise;       Junction;       Mildmay;       Tollington;       Tufnell Park.
Islington South and Finsbury       (borough constituency)         In the
London Borough of Hackney, the De Beauvoir ward.       The following wards of
the London Borough of Islington —       Barnsbury;       Bunhill;
Caledonian;       Canonbury;       Clerkenwell;       Holloway;       Laycock;
St. Mary’s & St. James’;       St. Peter’s & Canalside.         Kensington and
Bayswater       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
Royal Borough of Kensington and Chelsea—       Abingdon;       Brompton & Hans
Town;       Campden;       Colville;       Courtfield;       Dalgarno;
Earl’s Court;       Golborne;       Holland;       Norland;       Notting
Dale;       Pembridge;       Queen’s Gate;       St. Helen’s.       The
following wards of the City of Westminster —       Bayswater;       Lancaster
Gate.         Kingston and Surbiton       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames—       Alexandra;
Berrylands;       Beverley;       Chessington North and Hook;
Chessington South;       Coombe Vale;       Grove;       Norbiton;       St.
Mark’s;       Surbiton Hill;       Tolworth and Hook Rise.         Lewisham
East       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the London
Borough of Lewisham —       Bellingham;       Catford South;       Downham;
Grove Park;       Hither Green;       Lee Green;       Rushey Green.
Lewisham North       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
London Borough of Lewisham —       Blackheath;       Brockley;       Deptford;
Evelyn;       Ladywell;       Lewisham Central;       New Cross Gate;
Telegraph Hill.         Lewisham West and East Dulwich       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of Lewisham —
Crofton Park;       Forest Hill;       Perry Vale;       Sydenham.       The
following wards of the London Borough of Southwark—       Dulwich Hill;
Goose Green;       Peckham Rye.         Leyton and Wanstead       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of Redbridge—
South Woodford;       Wanstead Park;       Wanstead Village.       The
following wards of the London Borough of Waltham Forest—       Cann Hall;
Cathall;       Forest;       Grove Green;       Leyton;       Leytonstone.
Mitcham and Morden       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the London Borough of Merton —       Cannon Hill;       Colliers Wood;
Cricket Green;       Figge’s Marsh;       Graveney;       Lavender Fields;
Longthornton;       Lower Morden;       Pollards Hill;       Ravensbury;
St. Helier.         Old Bexley and Sidcup       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the London Borough of Bexley—       Blackfen &
Lamorbey;       Blendon & Penhill;       East Wickham;       Falconwood &
Welling;       Longlands;       St. Mary’s & St. James;       Sidcup.
Orpington       (borough constituency)         In the London Borough of
Bromley—       (a) the Chelsfield and Pratts Bottom ward;       (b) the Cray
Valley East ward;       (c) the Cray Valley West ward;       (d) in the Darwin
ward—       (i) polling districts DA2, DA3 and DA4;       (ii) polling
district DA5 except for Darwin ward area A ;       (iii) polling district DA6;
(iv) polling district DA7 except for Darwin ward area B ;       (e) the
Farnborough and Crofton ward;       (f) the Orpington ward;       (g) the
Petts Wood and Knoll ward.         Peckham       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the London Borough of Southwark—       Faraday;
North Walworth;       Nunhead & Queen’s Road;       Old Kent Road;
Peckham;       Rye Lane;       St. Giles.         Poplar and Limehouse
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Tower Hamlets—       Blackwall & Cubitt Town;       Bromley South;
Canary Wharf;       Island Gardens;       Lansbury;       Limehouse;
Mile End;       Poplar;       St. Katharine’s & Wapping.         Putney
(borough constituency)         In the London Borough of Wandsworth—       (a)
the East Putney ward;       (b) in the Fairfield ward, polling districts FFA,
FFB and FFC ;       (c) the Roehampton and Putney Heath ward;       (d) the
Southfields ward;       (e) the Thamesfield ward;       (f) the West Hill
ward;       (g) the West Putney ward.         Queen’s Park and Maida Vale
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Brent —       Harlesden & Kensal Green;       Kilburn;       Queens Park.
The following wards of the City of Westminster —       Church Street;
Harrow Road;       Little Venice;       Maida Vale;       Queen’s Park;
Westbourne.         Richmond Park       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames—       Canbury;
Coombe Hill;       Tudor.       The following wards of the London Borough of
Richmond upon Thames —       Barnes;       East Sheen;       Ham, Petersham &
Richmond Riverside;       Kew;       Mortlake & Barnes Common;       North
Richmond;       South Richmond.         Romford       (borough constituency)
In the London Borough of Havering—       (a) the Brooklands ward;       (b) in
the Emerson Park ward—       (i) that part of polling district EM2 to the west
of the River Ravensbourne ;       (ii) in polling district EM4, Emerson Park
area A , Emerson Park area B  and Emerson Park area C ;       (c) the Havering
Park ward;       (d) the Hylands ward;       (e) the Mawneys ward;       (f)
the Pettits ward;       (g) the Romford Town ward;       (h) the Squirrel’s
Heath ward.         Ruislip, Northwood and Pinner       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the London Borough of Harrow —       Hatch End;
Pinner;       Pinner South.       The following wards of the London Borough of
Hillingdon —       Eastcote;       Harefield Village;       Northwood;
Northwood Hills;       Ruislip.         Southgate and Wood Green
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Enfield —       Arnos Grove;       Bowes;       Cockfosters;       New
Southgate;       Oakwood;       Palmers Green;       Southgate.       The
following wards of the London Borough of Haringey —       Bounds Green;
Noel Park;       White Hart Lane;       Woodside.         Stratford and Bow
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Newham—       Forest Gate North;       Forest Gate South;       Green Street
West;       Stratford and New Town.       The following wards of the London
Borough of Tower Hamlets—       Bow East;       Bow West;       Bromley North.
Streatham and Croydon North       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the London Borough of Croydon—       Crystal Palace & Upper Norwood;
Norbury & Pollards Hill;       Norbury Park;       Thornton Heath.       The
following wards of the London Borough of Lambeth—       St. Leonard’s;
Streatham Hill;       Streatham South;       Streatham Wells.         Sutton
and Cheam       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
London Borough of Sutton —       Belmont;       Cheam;       North Cheam;
Stonecot;       Sutton Central;       Sutton North;       Sutton South;
Sutton West & East Cheam;       Worcester Park North;       Worcester Park
South.         Tooting       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the London Borough of Wandsworth—       Bedford;       Earlsfield;
Furzedown;       Graveney;       Nightingale;       Tooting;       Wandsworth
Common.         Tottenham       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the London Borough of Hackney—       Brownswood;       Woodberry
Down.       The following wards of the London Borough of Haringey —
Bruce Castle;       Hermitage & Gardens;       Northumberland Park;       St.
Ann’s;       Seven Sisters;       South Tottenham;       Tottenham Central;
Tottenham Hale;       West Green.         Twickenham       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of Richmond
upon Thames —       Fulwell & Hampton Hill;       Hampton;       Hampton
North;       Hampton Wick & South Teddington;       Heathfield;       St.
Margarets & North Twickenham;       South Twickenham;       Teddington;
Twickenham Riverside;       West Twickenham.         Uxbridge and South
Ruislip       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the London
Borough of Hillingdon —       Colham & Cowley;       Hillingdon East;
Hillingdon West;       Ickenham & South Harefield;       Ruislip Manor;
South Ruislip;       Uxbridge;       Yiewsley.         Vauxhall and Camberwell
Green       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the London
Borough of Lambeth—       Bishop’s;       Oval;       Prince’s;
Stockwell;       Vassall.       The following wards of the London Borough of
Southwark—       Camberwell Green;       Newington.         Walthamstow
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the London Borough of
Waltham Forest—       Chapel End;       High Street;       Higham Hill;
Hoe Street;       Lea Bridge;       Markhouse;       William Morris;
Wood Street.         West Ham and Beckton       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the London Borough of Newham—       Beckton;
Canning Town North;       Canning Town South;       Custom House;
Plaistow North;       Plaistow South;       Royal Docks;       West Ham.
Wimbledon       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
Royal Borough of Kingston upon Thames—       Old Malden;       St. James.
The following wards of the London Borough of Merton —       Abbey;
Hillside;       Merton Park;       Raynes Park;       Village;       Wandle
West Barnes;       Wimbledon Park;       Wimbledon Town & Dundonald.

##### North East region

      Name and designation Composition       (1)       The ward of Newsham is
that area as it existed, as altered by the Northumberland (Electoral Changes)
Order 2020 , on 6th May 2021.             (2)       The ward of Seghill with
Seaton Delaval is that area as it existed, as altered by the Northumberland
(Electoral Changes) Order 2020, on 6th May 2021.               Bishop Auckland
(county constituency)         The following electoral divisions of the County
of Durham—       Barnard Castle East;       Barnard Castle West;       Bishop
Auckland Town;       Coundon;       Crook;       Evenwood;       Shildon and
Dene Valley;       Tow Law;       Weardale;       West Auckland;
Woodhouse Close.         Blaydon and Consett       (county constituency)
The following electoral divisions of the County of Durham—       Benfieldside;
Burnopfield and Dipton;       Consett North;       Consett South;       Delves
Lane;       Leadgate and Medomsley.       The following wards of the
Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead—       Blaydon;       Chopwell and Rowlands
Gill;       Crawcrook and Greenside;       Ryton, Crookhill and Stella;
Winlaton and High Spen.         Blyth and Ashington       (county
constituency)         The following electoral divisions of the County of
Northumberland—       Ashington Central;       Bedlington Central;
Bedlington East;       Bedlington West;       Bothal;       Choppington;
College;       Cowpen;       Croft;       Haydon;       Hirst;       Isabella;
Kitty Brewster;       Newbiggin Central and East;       Newsham ;
Plessey;       Seaton with Newbiggin West;       Sleekburn;       South Blyth;
Stakeford;       Wensleydale.         City of Durham       (county
constituency)         The following electoral divisions of the County of
Durham—       Belmont;       Brandon;       Deerness;       Durham South;
Elvet and Gilesgate;       Esh and Witton Gilbert;       Framwellgate and
Newton Hall;       Neville’s Cross;       Sherburn;       Willington and
Hunwick.         Cramlington and Killingworth       (county constituency)
In the City of Newcastle upon Tyne, in the Castle ward, polling districts F01,
F02 and F03 .       The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of North
Tyneside—       Camperdown;       Killingworth;       Valley;       Weetslade.
The following electoral divisions of the County of Northumberland—
Cramlington East;       Cramlington Eastfield;       Cramlington North;
Cramlington South East;       Cramlington Village;       Cramlington West;
Hartley;       Holywell;       Seghill with Seaton Delaval .
Darlington       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Darlington—       Bank Top & Lascelles;       Brinkburn &
Faverdale;       Cockerton;       College;       Eastbourne;       Harrowgate
Hill;       Haughton & Springfield;       Heighington & Coniscliffe;
Hummersknott;       Mowden;       North Road;       Northgate;       Park
East;       Park West;       Pierremont;       Red Hall & Lingfield;
Stephenson;       Whinfield.         Easington       (county constituency)
In the County of Durham—       (a) the Blackhalls electoral division;
(b) the Dawdon electoral division;       (c) the Deneside electoral division;
(d) the Easington electoral division;       (e) the Horden electoral division;
(f) the Murton electoral division;       (g) the Passfield electoral division;
(h) the Peterlee East electoral division;       (i) the Peterlee West
electoral division;       (j) the Seaham electoral division;       (k) the
Shotton and South Hetton electoral division;       (l) in the Trimdon and
Thornley electoral division, polling districts DKC, EEA, SNA, SNB and SNC ;
(m) the Wingate electoral division.         Gateshead Central and Whickham
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Gateshead—       Bridges;       Chowdene;       Deckham;       Dunston and
Teams;       Dunston Hill and Whickham East;       High Fell;       Lobley
Hill and Bensham;       Low Fell;       Saltwell;       Whickham North;
Whickham South and Sunniside.         Hartlepool       (county constituency)
The Borough of Hartlepool.     Hexham       (county constituency)         In
the City of Newcastle upon Tyne, the Callerton & Throckley ward.       The
following electoral divisions of the County of Northumberland—
Bellingham;       Bywell;       Corbridge;       Haltwhistle;       Haydon and
Hadrian;       Hexham Central with Acomb;       Hexham East;       Hexham
West;       Humshaugh;       Longhorsley;       Ponteland East and
Stannington;       Ponteland North;       Ponteland South with Heddon;
Ponteland West;       Prudhoe North;       Prudhoe South;       South
Tyneside;       Stocksfield and Broomhaugh.         Houghton and Sunderland
South       (county constituency)         The following wards of the City of
Sunderland—       Copt Hill;       Doxford;       Hetton;       Houghton;
St. Anne’s;       St. Chad’s;       Sandhill;       Shiney Row;
Silksworth.         Jarrow and Gateshead East       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Gateshead—       Felling;
Pelaw and Heworth;       Wardley and Leam Lane;       Windy Nook and
Whitehills.       The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of South
Tyneside—       Bede;       Boldon Colliery;       Fellgate and Hedworth;
Hebburn North;       Hebburn South;       Monkton;       Primrose.
Middlesbrough and Thornaby East       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the Borough of Middlesbrough—       Acklam;       Ayresome;
Berwick Hills & Pallister;       Brambles & Thorntree;       Central;
Kader;       Linthorpe;       Longlands & Beechwood;       Newport;
North Ormesby;       Park;       Trimdon.       The following wards of the
Borough of Stockton-on-Tees—       Mandale and Victoria;       Stainsby Hill.
Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the Borough of Middlesbrough—       Coulby Newham;
Hemlington;       Ladgate;       Marton East;       Marton West;
Nunthorpe;       Park End & Beckfield;       Stainton & Thornton.       The
following wards of the Borough of Redcar and Cleveland—       Belmont;
Brotton;       Guisborough;       Hutton;       Lockwood;       Loftus;
Skelton East;       Skelton West.         Newcastle upon Tyne Central and West
(borough constituency)         In the City of Newcastle upon Tyne—       (a)
the Arthur’s Hill ward;       (b) the Benwell & Scotswood ward;       (c) the
Blakelaw ward;       (d) the Chapel ward;       (e) the Denton & Westerhope
ward;       (f) the Elswick ward;       (g) in the Kingston Park South &
Newbiggin Hall ward, polling districts O01, O02 and O03 ;       (h) the
Lemington ward;       (i) the Monument ward;       (j) the West Fenham ward;
(k) the Wingrove ward.         Newcastle upon Tyne East and Wallsend
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Newcastle
upon Tyne—       Byker;       Heaton;       Manor Park;       Ouseburn;
Walker;       Walkergate.       In the Metropolitan Borough of North Tyneside—
(a) the Battle Hill ward;       (b) the Howdon ward;       (c) the
Northumberland ward;       (d) in the Riverside ward, polling districts FA and
FB ;       (e) the Wallsend ward.         Newcastle upon Tyne North
(borough constituency)         In the City of Newcastle upon Tyne—       (a)
in the Castle ward, polling districts F04, F05 and F06 ;       (b) the Dene &
South Gosforth ward;       (c) the Fawdon & West Gosforth ward;       (d) the
Gosforth ward;       (e) the Kenton ward;       (f) in the Kingston Park South
& Newbiggin Hall ward, polling district O04 ;       (g) the North Jesmond
ward;       (h) the Parklands ward;       (i) the South Jesmond ward.
The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of North Tyneside—
Benton;       Longbenton.         Newton Aycliffe and Spennymoor       (county
constituency)         In the County of Durham—       (a) the Aycliffe East
electoral division;       (b) the Aycliffe North and Middridge electoral
division;       (c) the Aycliffe West electoral division;       (d) the Bishop
Middleham and Cornforth electoral division;       (e) the Chilton electoral
division;       (f) the Coxhoe electoral division;       (g) the Ferryhill
electoral division;       (h) the Sedgefield electoral division;       (i) the
Spennymoor electoral division;       (j) in the Trimdon and Thornley electoral
division, polling districts SKB, SLA, SLB, SMB and SMC ;       (k) the Tudhoe
electoral division.         North Durham       (county constituency)
The following electoral divisions in the County of Durham—       Annfield
Plain;       Chester-le-Street East;       Chester-le-Street North;
Chester-le-Street South;       Chester-le-Street West Central;       Craghead
and South Moor;       Lanchester;       Lumley;       North Lodge;
Pelton;       Sacriston;       Stanley;       Tanfield.         North
Northumberland       (county constituency)         The following electoral
divisions of the County of Northumberland—       Alnwick;       Amble;
Amble West with Warkworth;       Bamburgh;       Berwick East;       Berwick
North;       Berwick West with Ord;       Druridge Bay;       Longhoughton;
Lynemouth;       Morpeth Kirkhill;       Morpeth North;       Morpeth
Stobhill;       Norham and Islandshires;       Pegswood;       Rothbury;
Shilbottle;       Wooler.         Redcar       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Redcar and Cleveland—       Coatham;
Dormanstown;       Eston;       Grangetown;       Kirkleatham;       Longbeck;
Newcomen;       Normanby;       Ormesby;       St. Germain’s;       Saltburn;
South Bank;       Teesville;       West Dyke;       Wheatlands;       Zetland.
South Shields       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
Metropolitan Borough of South Tyneside—       Beacon and Bents;       Biddick
and All Saints;       Cleadon and East Boldon;       Cleadon Park;
Harton;       Horsley Hill       Simonside and Rekendyke;       West Park;
Westoe;       Whitburn and Marsden;       Whiteleas.         Stockton North
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Stockton-
on-Tees—       Billingham Central;       Billingham East;       Billingham
North;       Billingham South;       Billingham West;       Hardwick and
Salters Lane;       Newtown;       Northern Parishes;       Norton North;
Norton South;       Norton West;       Parkfield and Oxbridge;
Roseworth;       Stockton Town Centre.         Stockton West       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Darlington—
Hurworth;       Sadberge & Middleton St. George.       The following wards of
the Borough of Stockton-on-Tees—       Bishopsgarth and Elm Tree;
Eaglescliffe;       Fairfield;       Grangefield;       Hartburn;
Ingleby Barwick East;       Ingleby Barwick West;       Village;       Western
Parishes;       Yarm.         Sunderland Central       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the City of Sunderland—       Barnes;       Fulwell;
Hendon;       Millfield;       Pallion;       Ryhope;       St. Michael’s;
St. Peter’s;       Southwick.         Tynemouth       (borough constituency)
In the Metropolitan Borough of North Tyneside—       (a) the Chirton ward;
(b) the Collingwood ward;       (c) the Cullercoats ward;       (d) the
Monkseaton North ward;       (e) the Monkseaton South ward;       (f) the
Preston ward;       (g) in the Riverside ward, polling districts FC, FD, FE,
FF, FG and FH ;       (h) the St. Mary’s ward;       (i) the Tynemouth ward;
(j) the Whitley Bay ward.         Washington and Gateshead South
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Gateshead—       Birtley;       Lamesley.       The following wards of the
City of Sunderland—       Castle;       Redhill;       Washington Central;
Washington East;       Washington North;       Washington South;
Washington West.

##### North West region

      Name and designation Composition       (1)       “Atherleigh ward area
A” is that part of polling district LCA which is (a) east of the Westleigh
Brook, and (b) north of a line starting on that part of the Atherleigh ward
boundary which is in the centre of the footbridge over Westleigh Brook and
then drawn to Ordnance Survey national grid reference 64998 01183 on the
polling district LCB boundary.               Altrincham and Sale West
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Trafford—       Altrincham;       Ashton upon Mersey;       Bowdon;
Broadheath;       Hale Barns;       Hale Central;       St. Mary’s;
Timperley;       Village.         Ashton-under-Lyne       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of
Tameside—       Ashton Hurst;       Ashton St. Michael’s;       Ashton
Waterloo;       Audenshaw;       Droylsden East;       Droylsden West;
Dukinfield;       St. Peter’s.         Barrow and Furness       (county
constituency)         The Borough of Barrow-in-Furness.       The following
wards of the Borough of Copeland—       Black Combe & Scafell;       Millom.
In the District of South Lakeland—       (a) in the Broughton & Coniston ward,
polling districts AHA, AHB, AHC, BZ, CA, CB, CL and CY ;       (b) the Furness
Peninsula ward;       (c) the Ulverston East ward;       (d) the Ulverston
West ward.         Birkenhead       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Wirral—       Bebington;
Bidston and St. James;       Birkenhead and Tranmere;       Claughton;
Oxton;       Prenton;       Rock Ferry.         Blackburn       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Blackburn with
Darwen—       Audley & Queen’s Park;       Bastwell & Daisyfield;
Billinge & Beardwood;       Blackburn Central;       Blackburn South East;
Ewood;       Little Harwood & Whitebirk;       Livesey with Pleasington;
Mill Hill & Moorgate;       Roe Lee;       Shear Brow & Corporation Park;
Wensley Fold.         Blackley and Middleton South       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Manchester—
Charlestown;       Crumpsall;       Harpurhey;       Higher Blackley;
Moston.       The following wards of the Borough of Rochdale—       East
Middleton;       South Middleton.         Blackpool North and Fleetwood
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of
Blackpool—       Anchorsholme;       Bispham;       Greenlands;
Ingthorpe;       Norbreck.       The following wards of the District of Wyre—
Bourne;       Carleton;       Cleveleys Park;       Jubilee;       Marsh Mill;
Mount;       Park;       Pharos;       Pheasant’s Wood;       Rossall;
Stanah;       Victoria & Norcross;       Warren.         Blackpool South
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of
Blackpool—       Bloomfield;       Brunswick;       Claremont;       Clifton;
Hawes Side;       Highfield;       Layton;       Marton;       Park;
Squires Gate;       Stanley;       Talbot;       Tyldesley;       Victoria;
Warbreck;       Waterloo.         Bolton North East       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of
Bolton—       Astley Bridge;       Bradshaw;       Breightmet;       Bromley
Cross;       Crompton;       Halliwell;       Little Lever and Darcy Lever;
Tonge with the Haulgh.         Bolton South and Walkden       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of
Bolton—       Farnworth;       Great Lever;       Harper Green;
Kearsley;       Rumworth.       The following wards of the City of Salford—
Little Hulton;       Walkden North;       Walkden South.         Bolton West
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Bolton—       Heaton and Lostock;       Horwich and Blackrod;       Horwich
North East;       Hulton;       Smithills;       Westhoughton North and Chew
Moor;       Westhoughton South.         Bootle       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Sefton—       Church;
Derby;       Ford;       Linacre;       Litherland;       Netherton and
Orrell;       St. Oswald;       Victoria.         Burnley       (county
constituency)         The Borough of Burnley.       The following wards of the
Borough of Pendle—       Brierfield East & Clover Hill;       Brierfield West
& Reedley.         Bury North       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Bury—       Church;       East;
Elton;       Moorside;       North Manor;       Radcliffe North;
Ramsbottom;       Redvales;       Tottington.         Bury South
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Bury—       Besses;       Holyrood;       Pilkington Park;       Radcliffe
East;       Radcliffe West;       St. Mary’s;       Sedgley;       Unsworth.
In the City of Salford, the Kersal & Broughton Park ward.         Carlisle
(county constituency)         The following wards of the City of Carlisle—
Belah & Kingmoor;       Botcherby & Harraby North;       Brampton & Fellside;
Cathedral & Castle;       Currock & Upperby;       Denton Holme & Morton
South;       Harraby South & Parklands;       Longtown & the Border;
Newtown & Morton North;       Sandsfield & Morton West;       Stanwix &
Houghton;       Wetheral & Corby.         Cheadle       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Stockport—       Bramhall
North;       Bramhall South and Woodford;       Cheadle and Gatley;
Cheadle Hulme North;       Cheadle Hulme South;       Heald Green;
Stepping Hill.         Chester North and Neston       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester—       Blacon;
Chester City & the Garden Quarter;       Great Boughton;       Little Neston;
Neston;       Newton & Hoole;       Parkgate;       Saughall & Mollington;
Upton;       Willaston & Thornton.         Chester South and Eddisbury
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Cheshire
East—       Audlem;       Bunbury;       Wrenbury;       Wybunbury.       The
following wards of the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester—       Christleton
& Huntington;       Farndon;       Handbridge Park;       Lache;       Malpas;
Tarporley;       Tarvin & Kelsall;       Tattenhall;       Weaver &
Cuddington.         Chorley       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the Borough of Chorley—       Adlington & Anderton;       Buckshaw &
Whittle;       Chorley East;       Chorley North & Astley;       Chorley North
East;       Chorley North West;       Chorley South East & Heath Charnock;
Chorley South West;       Clayton East, Brindle & Hoghton;       Clayton West
& Cuerden;       Coppull;       Euxton.         Congleton       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Cheshire East—
Alsager;       Brereton Rural;       Congleton East;       Congleton West;
Dane Valley;       Odd Rode;       Sandbach Elworth;       Sandbach Ettiley
Heath and Wheelock;       Sandbach Heath and East;       Sandbach Town.
Crewe and Nantwich       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the Borough of Cheshire East—       Crewe Central;       Crewe East;
Crewe North;       Crewe South;       Crewe St. Barnabas;       Crewe West;
Haslington;       Leighton;       Nantwich North and West;       Nantwich
South and Stapeley;       Shavington;       Willaston and Rope;
Wistaston.         Ellesmere Port and Bromborough       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester—       Central
& Grange;       Ledsham & Manor;       Netherpool;       Strawberry;
Sutton Villages;       Westminster;       Whitby Groves;       Whitby Park;
Wolverham.       The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Wirral—
Bromborough;       Eastham.         Fylde       (county constituency)
The Borough of Fylde.       The following wards of the Borough of Wyre—
Breck;       Hardhorn with High Cross;       Tithebarn.         Gorton and
Denton       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of
Manchester—       Burnage;       Gorton & Abbey Hey;       Levenshulme;
Longsight.       The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Tameside—
Denton North East;       Denton South;       Denton West.         Hazel Grove
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Stockport—       Bredbury and Woodley;       Bredbury Green and Romiley;
Hazel Grove;       Manor;       Marple North;       Marple South and High
Lane;       Offerton.         Heywood and Middleton North       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Rochdale—
Bamford;       Castleton;       Hopwood Hall;       Norden;       North
Heywood;       North Middleton;       Spotland and Falinge;       West
Heywood;       West Middleton.         Hyndburn       (county constituency)
The Borough of Hyndburn.       The following wards of the Borough of
Rossendale—       Greenfield;       Worsley.         Knowsley       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of
Knowsley—       Cherryfield;       Northwood;       Prescot North;       Roby;
St. Gabriels;       St. Michaels;       Shevington;       Stockbridge;
Whitefield.         Lancaster and Wyre       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Lancaster—       Bulk;       Castle;
Ellel;       John O’Gaunt;       Marsh;       Scotforth East;       Scotforth
West;       Skerton East;       Skerton West;       University & Scotforth
Rural.       The following wards of the District of Wyre—       Brock with
Catterall;       Calder;       Garstang;       Great Eccleston;
Hambleton & Stalmine;       Pilling;       Preesall;       Wyresdale.
Leigh and Atherton       (borough constituency)         In the Metropolitan
Borough of Wigan—       (a) in the Atherleigh ward—       (i) Atherleigh ward
area A ;       (ii) polling districts LCB, LCC, LCD and LCE ;       (b) the
Atherton ward;       (c) the Golborne and Lowton West ward;       (d) the
Leigh East ward;       (e) the Leigh South ward;       (f) in the Leigh West
ward, polling districts LDB, LDC, LDD, LDE and LDF ;       (g) the Lowton East
ward;       (h) the Tyldesley ward.         Liverpool Garston       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Liverpool—
Allerton and Hunts Cross;       Belle Vale;       Church;       Cressington;
Speke-Garston;       Woolton.         Liverpool Riverside       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Liverpool—
Anfield;       Central;       Everton;       Kirkdale;       Princes Park;
Riverside.         Liverpool Walton       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Liverpool—       Clubmoor;       County;
Croxteth;       Fazakereley;       Norris Green;       Warbreck.       In the
Metropolitan Borough of Sefton, in the Molyneux ward, polling districts C4, C5
and C6 .         Liverpool Wavertree       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Liverpool—       Childwall;       Greenbank;
Kensington and Fairfield;       Mossley Hill;       Picton;       St.
Michael’s;       Wavertree.         Liverpool West Derby       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of
Knowsley—       Page Moss;       Swanside.       The following wards of the
City of Liverpool—       Knotty Ash;       Old Swan;       Tuebrook and
Stoneycroft;       West Derby;       Yew Tree.         Macclesfield
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Cheshire
East—       Bollington;       Broken Cross and Upton;       Disley;
Gawsworth;       Macclesfield Central;       Macclesfield East;
Macclesfield Hurdsfield;       Macclesfield South;       Macclesfield
Tytherington;       Macclesfield West and Ivy;       Poynton East and Pott
Shrigley;       Poynton West and Adlington;       Prestbury;       Sutton.
Makerfield       (borough constituency)         In the Metropolitan Borough of
Wigan—       (a) the Abram ward;       (b) the Ashton ward;       (c) in the
Atherleigh ward, polling district LCA other than Atherleigh ward area A ;
(d) the Bryn ward;       (e) the Hindley ward;       (f) the Hindley Green
ward;       (g) in the Leigh West ward, polling district LDA ;       (h) the
Orrell ward;       (i) the Winstanley ward;       (j) the Worsley Mesnes ward.
Manchester Central       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the City of Manchester—       Ancoats & Beswick;       Cheetham;       Clayton
& Openshaw;       Deansgate;       Miles Platting & Newton Heath;
Piccadilly.       The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Oldham—
Failsworth East;       Failsworth West.         Manchester Rusholme
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Manchester—
Ardwick;       Fallowfield;       Hulme;       Moss Side;       Rusholme;
Whalley Range.         Manchester Withington       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the City of Manchester—       Chorlton;       Chorlton
Park;       Didsbury East;       Didsbury West;       Old Moat;
Withington.         Mid Cheshire       (county constituency)         In the
Borough of Cheshire East, the Middlewich ward.       The following wards of
the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester—       Davenham, Moulton & Kingsmead;
Hartford & Greenback;       Northwich Leftwich;       Northwich Winnington &
Castle;       Northwich Witton;       Rudheath;       Winsford Dene;
Winsford Gravel;       Winsford Over & Verdin;       Winsford Swanlow;
Winsford Wharton.         Morecambe and Lunesdale       (county constituency)
The following wards of the City of Lancaster—       Bare;       Bolton &
Slyne;       Carnforth & Millhead;       Halton-with-Aughton;       Harbour;
Heysham Central;       Heysham North;       Heysham South;       Kellet;
Lower Lune Valley;       Overton;       Poulton;       Silverdale;
Torrisholme;       Upper Lune Valley;       Warton;       Westgate.       The
following wards of the District of South Lakeland—       Arnside & Milnthorpe;
Burton & Crooklands;       Sedbergh & Kirkby Lonsdale.         Oldham East and
Saddleworth       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Metropolitan Borough of Oldham—       Alexandra;       Crompton;
Saddleworth North;       Saddleworth South;       Saddleworth West and Lees;
St. James’;       St. Mary’s;       Shaw;       Waterhead.         Oldham
West, Chadderton and Royton       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Oldham—       Chadderton Central;
Chadderton North;       Chadderton South;       Coldhurst;       Hollinwood;
Medlock Vale;       Royton North;       Royton South;       Werneth.
Pendle and Clitheroe       (county constituency)         The following wards
of the Borough of Pendle—       Barnoldswick;       Barrowford & Pendleside;
Boulsworth & Foulridge;       Bradley;       Earby & Coates;       Fence &
Higham;       Marsden & Southfield;       Vivary Bridge;       Waterside &
Horsfield;       Whitefield & Walverden.       The following wards of the
Borough of Ribble Valley—       Chatburn;       East Whalley, Read &
Simonstone;       Edisford & Low Moor;       Littlemoor;       Primrose;
Sabden;       St. Mary’s;       Salthill;       Whalley & Painter Wood;
Wiswell & Barrow.         Penrith and Solway       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Allerdale—       All Saints;
Allhallow & Waverton;       Aspatria;       Boltons;       Broughton St.
Bridgets;       Christchurch;       Crummock & Derwent Valley;       Ellen &
Gilcrux;       Keswick;       Marsh & Warmpool;       Maryport North;
Maryport South;       Silloth & Solway Coast;       Warnell;       Wigton &
Woodside.       In the City of Carlisle, the Dalston & Burgh ward.       The
following wards of the District of Eden—       Alston Moor;       Hartside;
Hesket;       Kirkoswald;       Langwathby;       Lazonby;       Penrith
Carleton;       Penrith East;       Penrith North;       Penrith Pategill;
Penrith South;       Penrith West;       Skelton.         Preston
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Preston—
Ashton;       Brookfield;       Cadley;       City Centre;       Deepdale;
Fishwick & Frenchwood;       Garrison;       Ingol & Cottam;       Lea &
Larches;       Plungington;       Ribbleton;       St. Matthew’s.
Ribble Valley       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
City of Preston—       Greyfriars;       Preston Rural East;       Preston
Rural North;       Sharoe Green.       The following wards of the Borough of
Ribble Valley—       Alston & Hothersall;       Billington & Langho;
Bowland;       Brockhall & Dinckley;       Chipping;       Clayton-le-Dale &
Salesbury;       Derby & Thornley;       Dilworth;       Gisburn & Rimington;
Hurst Green & Whitewell;       Mellor;       Ribchester;       Waddington,
Bashall Eaves & Mitton;       West Bradford & Grindleton;       Whalley
Nethertown;       Wilpshire & Ramsgreave.       The following wards of the
Borough of South Ribble—       Bamber Bridge East;       Bamber Bridge West;
Coupe Green & Gregson Lane;       Lostock Hall;       Samlesbury & Walton;
Walton-le-Dale East;       Walton-le-Dale West.         Rochdale       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Rochdale—
Balderstone and Kirkholt;       Central Rochdale;       Healey;
Kingsway;       Littleborough Lakeside;       Milkstone and Deeplish;
Milnrow and Newhey;       Smallbridge and Firgrove;       Wardle and West
Littleborough.         Rossendale and Darwen       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Blackburn with Darwen—       Blackburn
South & Lower Darwen;       Darwen East;       Darwen South;       Darwen
West;       West Pennine.       The following wards of the Borough of
Rossendale—       Cribden;       Eden;       Facit and Shawforth;
Goodshaw;       Greensclough;       Hareholme;       Healey and Whitworth;
Helmshore;       Irwell;       Longholme;       Stacksteads;       Whitewell.
Runcorn and Helsby       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the Borough of Cheshire West and Chester—       Frodsham;       Gowy Rural;
Helsby;       Sandstone.       The following wards of the Borough of Halton—
Beechwood & Heath;       Bridgewater;       Daresbury, Moore & Sandymoor;
Grange;       Halton Castle;       Halton Lea;       Mersey & Weston;
Norton North;       Norton South & Preston Brook.         Salford
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Salford—
Blackfriars & Trinity;       Broughton;       Claremont;       Ordsall;
Pendlebury & Clifton;       Pendleton & Charlestown;       Quays;
Swinton Park;       Weaste & Seedley.         Sefton Central       (county
constituency)         In the Metropolitan Borough of Sefton—       (a) the
Ainsdale ward;       (b) the Blundellsands ward;       (c) the Harington ward;
(d) the Manor ward;       (e) in the Molyneux ward, polling districts C1, C2
and C3 ;       (f) the Park ward;       (g) the Ravenmeols ward;       (h) the
Sudell ward.         South Ribble       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the Borough of Chorley—       Croston, Mawdesley & Euxton
South;       Eccleston, Heskin & Charnock Richard.       The following wards
of the Borough of South Ribble—       Broad Oak;       Broadfield;
Buckshaw & Worden;       Charnock;       Earnshaw Bridge;       Farington
East;       Farington West;       Hoole;       Howick & Priory;       Leyland
Central;       Longton & Hutton West;       Middleforth;       Moss Side;
New Longton & Hutton East;       St. Ambrose;       Seven Stars.
Southport       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Metropolitan Borough of Sefton—       Birkdale;       Cambridge;       Duke’s;
Kew;       Meols;       Norwood.       The following wards of the Borough of
West Lancashire—       Hesketh-with-Becconsall;       North Meols;
Rufford;       Tarleton.         St Helens North       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of St Helens—       Billinge and Seneley
Green;       Blackbrook;       Earlestown;       Haydock;       Moss Bank;
Newton;       Parr;       Rainford;       Windle.         St Helens South and
Whiston       (borough constituency)         In the Metropolitan Borough of
Knowsley—       (a) the Prescot South ward;       (b) in the Whiston & Cronton
ward, polling district WC5 .       The following wards of the Borough of St
Helens—       Bold;       Eccleston;       Rainhill;       Sutton;
Thatto Heath;       Town Centre;       West Park.         Stalybridge and Hyde
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Tameside—       Dukinfield Stalybridge;       Hyde Godley;       Hyde
Newton;       Hyde Werneth;       Longdendale;       Mossley;
Stalybridge North;       Stalybridge South.         Stockport       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of
Stockport—       Brinnington and Central;       Davenport and Cale Green;
Edgeley and Cheadle Heath;       Heatons North;       Heatons South;
Reddish North;       Reddish South.         Stretford and Urmston
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Trafford—       Bucklow-St. Martins;       Clifford;       Davyhulme East;
Davyhulme West;       Flixton;       Gorse Hill;       Longford;
Stretford;       Urmston.         Tatton       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Cheshire East—       Alderley Edge;
Chelford;       Handforth;       High Legh;       Knutsford;       Mobberley;
Wilmslow Dean Row;       Wilmslow East;       Wilmslow Lacey Green;
Wilmslow West and Chorley.       The following wards of the Borough of
Cheshire West and Chester—       Marbury;       Shakerley.       In the
District of Warrington:—       (a) in the Lymm North & Thelwall ward, polling
districts SNA, SNB, SPA, SPB and SPC ;       (b) the Lymm South ward.
Wallasey       (borough constituency)         In the Metropolitan Borough of
Wirral—       (a) the Leasowe and Moreton East ward;       (b) the Liscard
ward;       (c) the Moreton West and Saughall Massie ward;       (d) the New
Brighton ward;       (e) the Seacombe ward;       (f) in the Upton ward,
polling districts MA and MB ;       (g) the Wallasey ward.         Warrington
North       (county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough
of Warrington—       Birchwood;       Burtonwood & Winwick;       Culcheth,
Glazebury & Croft;       Fairfield & Howley;       Orford;       Poplars &
Hulme;       Poulton North;       Poulton South;       Rixton & Woolston;
Westbrook.         Warrington South       (county constituency)         In the
Borough of Warrington—       (a) the Appleton ward;       (b) the Bewsey &
Whitecross ward;       (c) the Chapelford & Old Hall ward;       (d) the
Grappenhall ward;       (e) the Great Sankey North & Whittle Hall ward;
(f) the Great Sankey South ward;       (g) the Latchford East ward;       (h)
the Latchford West ward;       (i) in the Lymm North & Thelwall ward, polling
districts SNC, SND, SNE and SNF ;       (j) the Penketh & Cuerdley ward;
(k) the Stockton Heath ward.         West Lancashire       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of West Lancashire—
Ashurst;       Aughton and Downholland;       Aughton Park;
Bickerstaffe;       Birch Green;       Burscough East;       Burscough West;
Derby;       Digmoor;       Halsall;       Knowsley;       Moorside;
Newburgh;       Parbold;       Scarisbrick;       Scott;       Skelmersdale
North;       Skelmersdale South;       Tanhouse;       Up Holland;
Wrightington.         Westmorland and Lonsdale       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of Eden—       Appleby (Appleby);
Appleby (Bongate);       Askham;       Brough;       Crosby Ravensworth;
Dacre;       Eamont;       Greystroke;       Kirkby Stephen;       Kirkby
Thore;       Long Marton;       Morland;       Orton and Tebay;
Ravenstonedale;       Shap;       Ullswater;       Warcop.       In the
District of South Lakeland—       (a) the Ambleside & Grasmere ward;       (b)
the Bowness & Levens ward;       (c) in the Broughton & Coniston ward, polling
districts AF, AO, AP, AQ, AS, AT, AU, BC, BDA, BDB, CX and DH ;       (d) the
Cartmel ward;       (e) the Grange ward;       (f) the Kendal East ward;
(g) the Kendal North ward;       (h) the Kendal Rural ward;       (i) the
Kendal South & Natland ward;       (j) the Kendal Town ward;       (k) the
Kendal West ward;       (l) the Windermere ward.         Whitehaven and
Workington       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Allerdale—       Dalton;       Flimby;       Harrington &
Salterbeck;       Moorclose & Moss Bay;       St. John’s;       St. Michael’s;
Seaton & Northside;       Stainburn & Clifton.       The following wards of
the Borough of Copeland—       Arlecdon & Ennerdale;       Beckermet;
Cleator Moor;       Corkickle;       Distington, Lowca & Parton;
Egremont;       Gosforth & Seascale;       Hillcrest;       Kells;       Moor
Row & Bigrigg;       Moresby;       St. Bees;       Sneckyeat;
Whitehaven Central;       Whitehaven South.         Widnes and Halewood
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Halton—
Appleton;       Bankfield;       Birchfield;       Central & West Bank;
Ditton, Hale Village & Halebank;       Farnworth;       Halton View;
Highfield;       Hough Green.       In the Metropolitan Borough of Knowsley—
(a) the Halewood North ward;       (b) the Halewood South ward;       (c) in
the Whiston & Cronton ward, polling districts WC1, WC1A, WC2, WC3 and WC4 .
Wigan       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Metropolitan Borough of Wigan—       Aspull New Springs Whelley;
Douglas;       Ince;       Pemberton;       Shevington with Lower Ground;
Standish with Langtree;       Wigan Central;       Wigan West.         Wirral
West       (county constituency)         In the Metropolitan Borough of
Wirral—       (a) the Clatterbridge ward;       (b) the Greasby, Frankby and
Irby ward;       (c) the Heswall ward;       (d) the Hoylake and Meols ward;
(e) the Pensby and Thingwall ward;       (f) in the Upton ward, polling
districts MC, MD and ME ;       (g) the West Kirby and Thurstaston ward.
Worsley and Eccles       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the City of Salford—       Barton & Winton;       Boothstown & Ellenbrook;
Cadishead & Lower Irlam;       Eccles;       Higher Irlam & Peel Green;
Swinton & Wardley;       Worsley & Westwood Park.       In the Metropolitan
Borough of Wigan, the Astley Mosley Common ward.         Wythenshawe and Sale
East       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of
Manchester—       Baguley;       Brooklands;       Northenden;       Sharston;
Woodhouse Park.       The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of
Trafford—       Brooklands;       Priory;       Sale Moor.

##### South East region

      Name and designation Composition       (1)       The electoral divisions
of the Isle of Wight are those divisions as they existed on 4th May 2021, in
accordance with the Isle of Wight (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .
Aldershot       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Hart—       Blackwater and Hawley;       Yateley East.       The
Borough of Rushmoor.         Arundel and South Downs       (county
constituency)         In the District of Arun—       (a) the Arundel &
Walberton ward;       (b) the Barnham ward;       (c) in the Felpham East
ward, polling district BHOE .       In the District of Chichester—       (a)
the Easebourne ward;       (b) the Fernhurst ward;       (c) the Fittleworth
ward;       (d) in the Goodwood ward, polling districts GWBX, GWEA, GWED, GWSI
and GWUP ;       (e) the Harting ward;       (f) the Loxwood ward;       (g)
the Midhurst ward;       (h) the Petworth ward.       The following wards of
the District of Horsham—       Bramber, Upper Beeding & Woodmancote;
Henfield;       Pulborough, Coldwaltham & Amberley;       Steyning & Ashurst;
Storrington & Washington;       West Chiltington, Thakeham & Ashington.
Ashford       (county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough
of Ashford—       Aylesford & East Stour;       Beaver;       Bircholt;
Bockhanger;       Bybrook;       Conningbrook & Little Burton Farm;
Furley;       Goat Lees;       Godinton;       Highfield;       Kennington;
Mersham, Sevington South with Finberry;       Norman;       Park Farm North;
Park Farm South;       Repton;       Roman;       Singleton East;
Singleton West;       Stanhope;       Victoria;       Washford;
Willesborough;       Wye with Hinxhill.       The following wards of the
District of Folkestone and Hythe—       North Downs East;       North Downs
West.         Aylesbury       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the District of Buckinghamshire—       Aston Clinton and Bierton;
Aylesbury East;       Aylesbury North;       Aylesbury North West;
Aylesbury South East;       Aylesbury South West;       Aylesbury West;
Ivinghoe;       Wing.         Banbury       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Cherwell—       Adderbury, Bloxham &
Bodicote;       Banbury, Calthorpe & Easington;       Banbury Cross &
Neithrop;       Banbury Grimsbury & Hightown;       Banbury Hardwick;
Banbury Ruscote;       Cropredy, Sibfords & Wroxton;       Deddington.
The following wards of the District of West Oxfordshire—       Chadlington and
Churchill;       Charlbury and Finstock;       Chipping Norton;       Kingham,
Rollright and Enstone;       The Bartons.         Basingstoke       (borough
constituency)         In the Borough of Basingstoke and Deane—       (a) the
Brighton Hill ward;       (b) the Brookvale & Kings Furlong;       (c) the
Chineham ward;       (d) the Eastrop & Grove ward;       (e) the Hatch Warren
& Beggarwood ward;       (f) the Kempshott & Buckskin ward;       (g) the
Norden ward;       (h) in the Oakley & The Candovers ward, polling districts
OC01, OC03, OC04, OC05, OC06, OC07, OC08, OC09 and OC11 ;       (i) the Popley
ward;       (j) the South Ham ward;       (k) the Winklebury & Manydown ward.
Beaconsfield       (county constituency)         In the District of
Buckinghamshire—       (a) the Beaconsfield ward;       (b) the Cliveden ward;
(c) in the Denham ward, polling districts SJ, SJA, SJHD, SK, SKA and SWF ;
(d) the Farnham Common and Burnham Beeches ward;       (e) the Flackwell
Heath, Little Marlow and Marlow South East ward;       (f) in the Gerrards
Cross ward, polling districts SB and SFH ;       (g) the Iver ward;       (h)
the Marlow ward;       (i) the Stoke Poges and Wexham ward;       (j) The
Wooburns, Bourne End and Hedsor ward.         Bexhill and Battle       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Rother—
Bexhill Central;       Bexhill Collington;       Bexhill Kewhurst;
Bexhill Old Town & Worsham;       Bexhill Pebsham & St. Michaels;
Bexhill Sackville;       Bexhill St. Marks;       Bexhill St. Stephens;
Bexhill Sidley;       Brede & Udimore;       Burwash & the Weald;
Catsfield & Crowhurst;       Hurst Green & Ticehurst;       North Battle,
Netherfield & Whatlington;       Northern Rother;       Robertsbridge;
Sedlescombe & Westfield;       South Battle & Telham.       The following
wards of the District of Wealden—       Herstmonceux & Pevensey Levels;
Pevensey Bay.         Bicester and Woodstock       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of Cherwell—       Bicester East;
Bicester North & Caversfield;       Bicester South & Ambrosden;       Bicester
West;       Fringford & Heyfords;       Kidlington East;       Kidlington
West;       Launton & Otmoor.       The following wards of the District of
West Oxfordshire—       Eynsham and Cassington;       Freeland and Hanborough;
North Leigh;       Stonesfield and Tackley;       Woodstock and Bladon.
Bognor Regis and Littlehampton       (borough constituency)         In the
District of Arun—       (a) the Aldwick East ward;       (b) the Aldwick West
ward;       (c) the Beach ward;       (d) the Brookfield ward;       (e) the
Courtwick with Toddington ward;       (f) in the Felpham East ward, polling
districts BFELE1, BFELE2, BFELE3 and BFELE4 ;       (g) the Felpham West ward;
(h) the Hotham ward;       (i) the Marine ward;       (j) the Middleton-on-Sea
ward;       (k) the Orchard ward;       (l) the Pevensey ward;       (m) the
River ward;       (n) the Rustington East ward;       (o) the Rustington West
ward;       (p) the Yapton ward.         Bracknell       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Bracknell Forest—
Bullbrook;       Central Sandhurst;       College Town;       Crown Wood;
Crowthorne;       Great Hollands North;       Great Hollands South;
Hanworth;       Harmans Water;       Little Sandhurst and Wellington;
Old Bracknell;       Owlsmoor;       Priestwood and Garth;       Warfield
Harvest Ride;       Wildridings and Central.         Brighton Kemptown and
Peacehaven       (borough constituency)         In the City of Brighton and
Hove—       (a) the East Brighton ward;       (b) in the Hanover and Elm Grove
ward—       (i) polling district PHEA, and       (ii) that part of polling
district PHEF to the east of Queen’s Park Road ;       (c) the Moulsecoomb and
Bevendean ward;       (d) the Queen’s Park ward;       (e) the Rottingdean
Coastal ward;       (f) the Woodingdean ward.       The following wards of the
District of Lewes—       East Saltdean & Telscombe Cliffs;       Peacehaven
East;       Peacehaven North;       Peacehaven West.         Brighton Pavilion
(borough constituency)         In the City of Brighton and Hove—       (a) in
the Hanover and Elm Grove ward—       (i) polling districts PHEB, PHEC, PHED
and PHEE, and       (ii) that part of polling district PHEF to the west of
Queen’s Park Road ;       (b) the Hollingdean and Stanmer ward;       (c) the
Patcham ward;       (d) the Preston Park ward;       (e) the Regency ward;
(f) the St. Peter’s and North Laine ward;       (g) the Withdean ward.
Buckingham and Bletchley       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the District of Buckinghamshire—       Buckingham East;
Buckingham West;       Great Brickhill;       Winslow.       The following
wards of the City of Milton Keynes—       Bletchley East;       Bletchley
Park;       Bletchley West;       Tattenhoe.         Canterbury       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Canterbury—
Barton;       Blean Forest;       Chartham & Stone Street;       Chestfield;
Gorrell;       Little Stour & Adisham;       Nailbourne;       Northgate;
St. Stephens;       Seasalter;       Swalecliffe;       Tankerton;
Westgate;       Wincheap.         Chatham and Aylesford       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Medway—
Chatham Central;       Lordswood and Capstone;       Luton and Wayfield;
Princes Park;       Rochester South and Horsted;       Walderslade.       The
following wards of the Borough of Tonbridge and Malling—       Aylesford North
and Walderslade;       Burham and Wouldham;       Larkfield North;
Larkfield South;       Snodland East and Ham Hill;       Snodland West and
Holborough Lakes.         Chesham and Amersham       (county constituency)
In the District of Buckinghamshire—       (a) the Amersham and Chesham Bois
ward;       (b) the Chalfont St. Giles ward;       (c) the Chalfont St. Peter
ward;       (d) the Chesham ward;       (e) the Chess Valley ward;       (f)
in the Chiltern Ridges ward, polling districts CD and CDA ;       (g) in the
Denham ward, polling district SGE ;       (h) in the Gerrards Cross ward,
polling districts SGN and SGS ;       (i) the Hazlemere ward;       (j) the
Little Chalfont and Amersham Common ward;       (k) the Penn Wood and Old
Amersham ward.         Chichester       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Arun—       Bersted;       Pagham.       In
the District of Chichester—       (a) the Chichester Central ward;       (b)
the Chichester East ward;       (c) the Chichester North ward;       (d) the
Chichester South ward;       (e) the Chichester West ward;       (f) in the
Goodwood ward, polling districts GWWD and GWWH ;       (g) the Harbour
Villages ward;       (h) the Lavant ward;       (i) the North Mundham &
Tangmere ward;       (j) the Selsey South ward;       (k) the Sidlesham with
Selsey North ward;       (l) the Southbourne ward;       (m) The Witterings
ward;       (n) the Westbourne ward.         Crawley       (borough
constituency)     The Borough of Crawley.     Dartford       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Dartford—
Bean & Village Park;       Brent;       Burnham;       Darenth;
Ebbsfleet;       Greenhithe & Knockhall;       Heath;       Joyden’s Wood;
Longfield, New Barn & Southfleet;       Maypole & Leyton Cross;       Newtown;
Princes;       Stone Castle;       Stone House;       Swanscombe;       Temple
Hill;       Town;       West Hill.         Didcot and Wantage       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of South
Oxfordshire—       Cholsey;       Didcot North East;       Didcot South;
Didcot West;       Sandford & the Wittenhams;       Wallingford.       The
following wards of the District of Vale of White Horse—       Blewbury &
Harwell;       Drayton;       Grove North;       Hendreds;       Ridgeway;
Stanford;       Steventon & the Hanneys;       Sutton Courtenay;       Wantage
& Grove Brook;       Wantage Charlton.         Dorking and Horley
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of Mole
Valley—       Beare Green;       Bookham North;       Bookham South;       Box
Hill and Headley;       Brockham, Betchworth and Buckland;       Capel, Leigh
and Newdigate;       Charlwood;       Dorking North;       Dorking South;
Fetcham East;       Fetcham West;       Holmwoods;       Leith Hill;
Mickleham, Westhumble and Pixham;       Okewood;       Westcott.       The
following wards of the Borough of Reigate and Banstead—       Horley Central &
South;       Horley East & Salfords;       Horley West & Sidlow.       In the
Borough of Waverley, the Ewhurst ward.         Dover and Deal       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Dover—
Alkham & Capel-le-Ferne;       Aylesham, Eythorne & Shepherdswell;
Buckland;       Dover Downs & River;       Eastry Rural;       Guston,
Kingsdown & St. Margaret’s-at-Cliffe;       Maxton & Elms Vale;       Middle
Deal;       Mill Hill;       North Deal;       St. Radigunds;       Tower
Hamlets;       Town & Castle;       Walmer;       Whitfield.         Earley
and Woodley       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Reading—       Church;       Whitley.       The following wards of
the Borough of Wokingham—       Bulmershe and Whitegates;       Coronation;
Hawkedon;       Hillside;       Loddon;       Maiden Erlegh;       Shinfield
North;       Shinfield South;       Sonning;       South Lake.         East
Grinstead and Uckfield       (county constituency)         The following wards
of the District of Lewes—       Chailey, Barcombe & Hamsey;       Newick;
Wivelsfield.       The following wards of the District of Mid Sussex—
Ardingly and Balcombe;       Ashurst Wood;       Copthorne and Worth;
Crawley Down and Turners Hill;       East Grinstead Ashplats;       East
Grinstead Baldwins;       East Grinstead Herontye;       East Grinstead
Imberhorne;       East Grinstead Town;       High Weald.       The following
wards of the District of Wealden—       Buxted;       Danehill & Fletching;
Forest Row;       Maresfield;       Uckfield East;       Uckfield New Town;
Uckfield North;       Uckfield Ridgewood & Little Horsted.         East
Hampshire       (county constituency)         In the Borough of Basingstoke
and Deane, in the Oakley & The Candovers ward, polling districts OC02, OC10,
OC12, OC13, OC14, OC15, OC16 and OC17 .       The following wards of the
District of East Hampshire—       Alton Amery;       Alton Ashdell;
Alton Eastbrooke;       Alton Holybourne;       Alton Westbrooke;       Alton
Whitedown;       Alton Wooteys;       Bentworth & Froyle;       Binsted,
Bentley & Selborne;       Buriton & East Meon;       Clanfield;       Four
Marks & Medstead;       Froxfield, Sheet & Steep;       Horndean Catherington;
Horndean Downs;       Horndean Kings & Blendworth;       Horndean Murray;
Liss;       Petersfield Bell Hill;       Petersfield Causeway;
Petersfield Heath;       Petersfield St. Peter’s;       Ropley, Hawkley &
Hangers;       Rowlands Castle.         East Surrey       (county
constituency)         In the Borough of Reigate and Banstead, the Hooley,
Merstham & Netherne ward.       The District of Tandridge.         East Thanet
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the District of Thanet—
Beacon Road;       Bradstowe;       Central Harbour;       Cliffsend and
Pegwell;       Cliftonville East;       Cliftonville West;       Dane Valley;
Eastcliff;       Kingsgate;       Margate Central;       Nethercourt;
Newington;       Northwood;       St. Peters;       Salmestone;       Sir
Moses Montefiore;       Viking.         East Worthing and Shoreham
(county constituency)         The District of Adur.       The following wards
of the Borough of Worthing—       Broadwater;       Gaisford;       Offington;
Selden.         Eastbourne       (borough constituency)     The District of
Eastbourne.     Eastleigh       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the Borough of Eastleigh—       Bishopstoke;       Chandler’s Ford;
Eastleigh Central;       Eastleigh North;       Eastleigh South;       Fair
Oak & Horton Heath;       Hiltingbury;       West End North;       West End
South.       In the Borough of Test Valley, the Valley Park ward.
Epsom and Ewell       (borough constituency)         The Borough of Epsom and
Ewell.       The following wards of the District of Mole Valley—       Ashtead
Common;       Ashtead Park;       Ashtead Village;       Leatherhead North;
Leatherhead South.         Esher and Walton       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Elmbridge—       Claygate;       Esher;
Hersham Village;       Hinchley Wood & Weston Green;       Long Ditton;
Molesey East;       Molesey West;       Oatlands & Burwood Park;       Thames
Ditton;       Walton Central;       Walton North;       Walton South.
Fareham and Waterlooville       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the Borough of Fareham—       Fareham East;       Fareham North;
Fareham North-West;       Fareham South;       Fareham West;       Portchester
East;       Portchester West.       The following wards of the Borough of
Havant—       Cowplain;       Hart Plain;       Waterloo.       The following
wards of the City of Winchester—       Denmead;       Southwick & Wickham.
Farnham and Bordon       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the District of East Hampshire—       Bramshott & Liphook;       Grayshott;
Headley;       Lindford;       Whitehill Chase;       Whitehill Hogmoor &
Greatham;       Whitehill Pinewood.       The following wards of the Borough
of Waverley—       Farnham Bourne;       Farnham Castle;       Farnham
Firgrove;       Farnham Hale and Heath End;       Farnham Moor Park;
Farnham Shortheath and Boundstone;       Farnham Upper Hale;       Farnham
Weybourne and Badshot Lea;       Farnham Wrecclesham and Rowledge;
Frensham, Dockenfield and Tilford;       Haslemere Critchmere and Shottermill;
Haslemere East and Grayswood;       Hindhead.         Faversham and Mid Kent
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Maidstone—
Bearsted;       Boxley;       Detling and Thurnham;       Downswood and Otham;
Harrietsham and Lenham;       Leeds;       North Downs;       Park Wood;
Shepway North;       Shepway South.       The following wards of the Borough
of Swale—       Abbey;       Boughton and Courtenay;       East Downs;
Priory;       St. Ann’s;       Teynham and Lynsted;       Watling;       West
Downs.         Folkestone and Hythe       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Folkestone and Hythe—       Broadmead;
Cheriton;       East Folkestone;       Folkestone Central;       Folkestone
Harbour;       Hythe;       Hythe Rural;       New Romney;       Romney Marsh;
Sandgate & West Folkestone;       Walland & Denge Marsh.         Gillingham
and Rainham       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Medway—       Gillingham North;       Gillingham South;
Hempstead and Wigmore;       Rainham Central;       Rainham North;
Rainham South;       Twydall;       Watling.         Godalming and Ash
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Guildford—
Ash South and Tongham;       Ash Vale;       Ash Wharf;       Pilgrims;
Shalford;       Tillingbourne.       The following wards of the Borough of
Waverley—       Alfold, Cranleigh Rural and Ellens Green;       Blackheath and
Wonersh;       Bramley, Busbridge and Hascombe;       Chiddingfold and
Dunsfold;       Cranleigh East;       Cranleigh West;       Elstead and
Thursley;       Godalming Binscombe;       Godalming Central and Ockford;
Godalming Charterhouse;       Godalming Farncombe and Catteshall;
Godalming Holloway;       Milford;       Shamley Green and Cranleigh North;
Witley and Hambledon.         Gosport       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the Borough of Fareham—       Hill Head;       Stubbington.
The Borough of Gosport.         Gravesham       (county constituency)     The
Borough of Gravesham.     Guildford       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the Borough of Guildford—       Burpham;
Christchurch;       Clandon and Horsley;       Effingham;       Friary and St.
Nicolas;       Holy Trinity;       Lovelace;       Merrow;       Onslow;
Send;       Stoke;       Stoughton;       Westborough;       Worplesdon.
Hamble Valley       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Eastleigh—       Botley;       Bursledon & Hound North;
Hamble & Netley;       Hedge End North;       Hedge End South.       The
following wards of the Borough of Fareham—       Locks Heath;       Park Gate;
Sarisbury;       Titchfield;       Titchfield Common;       Warsash.       In
the City of Winchester, the Whiteley & Shedfield ward.         Hastings and
Rye       (county constituency)         The Borough of Hastings.       The
following wards of the District of Rother—       Eastern Rother;       Rye &
Winchelsea;       Southern Rother.         Havant       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Havant—       Barncroft;       Battins;
Bedhampton;       Bondfields;       Emsworth;       Hayling East;
Hayling West;       Purbrook;       St. Faith’s;       Stakes;       Warren
Park.         Henley and Thame       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of South Oxfordshire—       Benson &
Crowmarsh;       Berinsfield;       Chalgrove;       Chinnor;       Forest
Hill & Holton;       Garsington & Horspath;       Goring;       Haseley Brook;
Henley-on-Thames;       Kidmore End & Whitchurch;       Sonning Common;
Thame;       Watlington;       Wheatley;       Woodcote & Rotherfield.
Herne Bay and Sandwich       (county constituency)         The following wards
of the City of Canterbury—       Beltinge;       Greenhill;       Herne &
Broomfield;       Heron;       Reculver;       Sturry;       West Bay.
The following wards of the District of Dover—       Little Stour & Ashstone;
Sandwich.       The following wards of the District of Thanet—
Birchington North;       Birchington South;       Garlinge;       Thanet
Villages;       Westbrook;       Westgate-on-Sea.         Horsham
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of Horsham—
Billingshurst;       Broadbridge Heath;       Colgate & Rusper;       Cowfold,
Shermanbury & West Grinstead;       Denne;       Forest;       Holbrook East;
Holbrook West;       Itchingfield, Slinfold & Warnham;       Nuthurst & Lower
Beeding;       Roffey North;       Roffey South;       Rudgwick;
Southwater North;       Southwater South & Shipley;       Trafalgar.
Hove and Portslade       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the City of Brighton and Hove—       Brunswick and Adelaide;       Central
Hove;       Goldsmid;       Hangleton and Knoll;       Hove Park;       North
Portslade;       South Portslade;       Westbourne;       Wish.         Isle
of Wight East       (county constituency)         The following electoral
divisions of the Isle of Wight —       Bembridge;       Binstead & Fishbourne;
Brading & St. Helens;       Haylands & Swanmore;       Lake North;       Lake
South;       Nettlestone & Seaview;       Newchurch, Havenstreet & Ashey;
Ryde Appley & Elmfield;       Ryde Monktonmead;       Ryde North West;
Ryde South East;       Ryde West;       Sandown North;       Sandown South;
Shanklin Central;       Shanklin South;       Ventnor & St. Lawrence;
Wootton Bridge;       Wroxall, Lowtherville & Bonchurch.         Isle of Wight
West       (county constituency)         The following electoral divisions of
the Isle of Wight —       Brighstone, Calbourne & Shalfleet;       Carisbrooke
& Gunville;       Central Rural;       Chale, Niton & Shorwell;       Cowes
Medina;       Cowes North;       Cowes South & Northwood;       Cowes West &
Gurnard;       East Cowes;       Fairlee & Whippingham;       Freshwater North
& Yarmouth;       Freshwater South;       Mountjoy & Shide;       Newport
Central;       Newport West;       Osborne;       Pan & Barton;
Parkhurst & Hunnyhill;       Totland & Colwell.         Lewes       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Lewes—
Ditchling & Westmeston;       Kingston;       Lewes Bridge;       Lewes
Castle;       Lewes Priory;       Newhaven North;       Newhaven South;
Ouse Valley & Ringmer;       Plumpton, Streat, East Chiltington & St. John;
Seaford Central;       Seaford East;       Seaford North;       Seaford South;
Seaford West.       The following wards of the District of Wealden—
Arlington;       Lower Willingdon;       Polegate Central;       Polegate
North;       Polegate South & Willingdon Watermill;       South Downs;
Stone Cross;       Upper Willingdon.         Maidenhead       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Bracknell Forest—
Ascot;       Binfield with Warfield;       Winkfield and Cranbourne.       The
following wards of the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead—       Belmont;
Bisham & Cookham;       Boyn Hill;       Bray;       Cox Green;       Furze
Platt;       Hurley & Walthams;       Oldfield;       Pinkneys Green;
Riverside;       St. Mary’s.         Maidstone and Malling       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Maidstone—
Allington;       Barming and Teston;       Bridge;       East;       Fant;
Heath;       High Street;       North;       South.       The following wards
of the Borough of Tonbridge and Malling—       Aylesford South;       Ditton;
East Malling;       Kings Hill;       West Malling and Leybourne.         Mid
Buckinghamshire       (county constituency)         In the District of
Buckinghamshire—       (a) the Bernwood ward;       (b) in the Chiltern Ridges
ward, polling districts CG, CGA, CM, CMA, CMB, CMC and CSB ;       (c) the
Great Missenden ward;       (d) the Grendon Underwood ward;       (e) the
Ridgeway East ward;       (f) the Ridgeway West ward;       (g) the Stone and
Waddesdon ward;       (h) The Risboroughs ward;       (i) the Wendover, Halton
and Stoke Mandeville ward.         Mid Sussex       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of Mid Sussex—       Bolney;       Burgess
Hill Dunstall;       Burgess Hill Franklands;       Burgess Hill Leylands;
Burgess Hill Meeds;       Burgess Hill St. Andrews;       Burgess Hill
Victoria;       Cuckfield;       Hassocks;       Haywards Heath Ashenground;
Haywards Heath Bentswood;       Haywards Heath Franklands;       Haywards
Heath Heath;       Haywards Heath Lucastes;       Hurstpierpoint and Downs;
Lindfield.         Milton Keynes Central       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the City of Milton Keynes—       Broughton;
Campbell Park & Old Woughton;       Central Milton Keynes;       Danesborough
& Walton;       Loughton & Shenley;       Monkston;       Shenley Brook End;
Woughton & Fishermead.         Milton Keynes North       (county constituency)
The following wards of the City of Milton Keynes—       Bradwell;
Newport Pagnell North & Hanslope;       Newport Pagnell South;       Olney;
Stantonbury;       Stony Stratford;       Wolverton.         New Forest East
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of New
Forest—       Ashurst, Copythorne South and Netley Marsh;       Boldre and
Sway;       Bramshaw, Copythorne North and Minstead;       Brockenhurst and
Forest South East;       Butts Ash and Dibden Purlieu;       Dibden and Hythe
East;       Fawley, Blackfield and Langley;       Furzedown and Hardley;
Holbury and North Blackfield;       Hythe West and Langdown;       Lyndhurst;
Marchwood;       Totton Central;       Totton East;       Totton North;
Totton South;       Totton West.         New Forest West       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of New Forest—
Barton;       Bashley;       Becton;       Bransgore and Burley;
Buckland;       Downlands and Forest;       Fernhill;       Fordingbridge;
Forest North West;       Hordle;       Lymington Town;       Milford;
Milton;       Pennington;       Ringwood East and Sopley;       Ringwood
North;       Ringwood South.         Newbury       (county constituency)
In the District of West Berkshire—       (a) the Chieveley & Cold Ash ward;
(b) in the Downlands ward, polling districts BG, CA, CB, EA, FA, FB, GA1, GA2,
LB and PC ;       (c) the Hungerford & Kintbury ward;       (d) the Lambourn
ward;       (e) the Newbury Central ward;       (f) the Newbury Clay Hill
ward;       (g) the Newbury Greenham ward;       (h) the Newbury Speen ward;
(i) the Newbury Wash Common ward;       (j) the Thatcham Central ward;
(k) the Thatcham Colthrop & Crookham ward;       (l) the Thatcham North East
ward;       (m) the Thatcham West ward.         North East Hampshire
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of
Basingstoke and Deane—       Basing & Upton Grey;       Bramley.       The
following wards of the District of Hart—       Crookham East;       Crookham
West and Ewshot;       Fleet Central;       Fleet East;       Fleet West;
Hartley Wintney;       Hook;       Odiham;       Yateley West.         North
West Hampshire       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Basingstoke and Deane—       Evingar;       Sherborne St. John &
Rooksdown;       Tadley & Pamber;       Tadley North, Kingsclere & Baughurst;
Whitchurch, Overton & Laverstoke.       The following wards of the Borough of
Test Valley—       Andover Downlands;       Andover Harroway;       Andover
Millway;       Andover Romans;       Andover St. Mary’s;       Andover Winton;
Bourne Valley.         Oxford East       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Oxford—       Barton & Sandhills;
Blackbird Leys;       Churchill;       Cowley;       Donnington;
Headington;       Headington Hill & Northway;       Hinksey Park;
Littlemore;       Lye Valley;       Marston;       Northfield Brook;
Quarry & Risinghurst;       Rose Hill & Iffley;       St. Clement’s;       St.
Mary’s;       Temple Cowley.         Oxford West and Abingdon       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Oxford—       Carfax
& Jericho;       Cutteslowe & Sunnymead;       Holywell;       Osney & St.
Thomas;       Summertown;       Walton Manor;       Wolvercote.       The
following wards of the District of Vale of White Horse—       Abingdon Abbey
Northcourt;       Abingdon Caldecott;       Abingdon Dunmore;       Abingdon
Fitzharris;       Abingdon Peachcroft;       Botley & Sunningwell;
Cumnor;       Kennington & Radley;       Marcham;       Wootton.
Portsmouth North       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the City of Portsmouth—       Baffins;       Copnor;       Cosham;
Drayton and Farlington;       Hilsea;       Nelson;       Paulsgrove.
Portsmouth South       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the City of Portsmouth—       Central Southsea;       Charles Dickens;
Eastney and Craneswater;       Fratton;       Milton;       St. Jude;
St. Thomas.         Reading Central       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the Borough of Reading—       Abbey;       Battle;
Caversham;       Katesgrove;       Mapledurham;       Minster;       Park;
Peppard;       Redlands;       Southcote;       Thames.         Reading West
and Mid Berkshire       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the Borough of Reading—       Kentwood;       Norcot;       Tilehurst.
In the District of West Berkshire—       (a) the Aldermaston ward;       (b)
the Basildon ward;       (c) the Bradfield ward;       (d) the Bucklebury
ward;       (e) the Burghfield & Mortimer ward;       (f) in the Downlands
ward, polling district BC ;       (g) the Pangbourne ward;       (h) the
Ridgeway ward;       (i) the Theale ward;       (j) the Tilehurst & Purley
ward;       (k) the Tilehurst Birch Copse ward;       (l) the Tilehurst South
& Holybrook ward.         Reigate       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the Borough of Reigate and Banstead—       Banstead
Village;       Chipstead, Kingswood & Woodmansterne;       Earlswood &
Whitebushes;       Lower Kingswood, Tadworth & Walton;       Meadvale & St.
John’s;       Nork;       Redhill East;       Redhill West & Wray Common;
Reigate;       South Park & Woodhatch;       Tattenham Corner & Preston.
Rochester and Strood       (county constituency)         The following wards
of the Borough of Medway—       Cuxton and Halling;       Peninsula;
River;       Rochester East;       Rochester West;       Strood North;
Strood Rural;       Strood South.         Romsey and Southampton North
(county constituency)         The following wards of the City of Southampton—
Bassett;       Swaythling.       The following wards of the Borough of Test
Valley—       Ampfield & Braishfield;       Anna;       Bellinger;
Blackwater;       Charlton & the Pentons;       Chilworth, Nursling &
Rownhams;       Harewood;       Mid Test;       North Baddesley;       Romsey
Abbey;       Romsey Cupernham;       Romsey Tadburn.         Runnymede and
Weybridge       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Elmbridge—       Cobham & Downside;       Oxshott & Stoke
D’Abernon;       Weybridge Riverside;       Weybridge St. George’s Hill.
The following wards of the Borough of Runnymede—       Addlestone North;
Addlestone South;       Chertsey Riverside;       Chertsey St. Ann’s;
Egham Hythe;       Egham Town;       Longcross, Lyne & Chertsey South;
New Haw;       Ottershaw;       Thorpe;       Woodham & Rowtown.
Sevenoaks       (county constituency)         In the Borough of Dartford, the
Wilmington, Sutton-at-Hone & Hawley ward.       The following wards of the
District of Sevenoaks—       Brasted, Chevening & Sundridge;       Crockenhill
and Well Hill;       Dunton Green and Riverhead;       Eynsford;
Farningham, Horton Kirby and South Darenth;       Fawkham and West Kingsdown;
Halstead, Knockholt and Badgers Mount;       Hextable;       Kemsing;
Otford and Shoreham;       Seal & Weald;       Sevenoaks Eastern;
Sevenoaks Kippington;       Sevenoaks Northern;       Sevenoaks Town and St.
John’s;       Swanley Christchurch and Swanley Village;       Swanley St.
Mary’s;       Swanley White Oak;       Westerham and Crockham Hill.
Sittingbourne and Sheppey       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the Borough of Swale—       Bobbing, Iwade and Lower Halstow;
Borden and Grove Park;       Chalkwell;       Hartlip, Newington and Upchurch;
Homewood;       Kemsley;       Milton Regis;       Minster Cliffs;
Murston;       Queenborough and Halfway;       Roman;       Sheerness;
Sheppey Central;       Sheppey East;       The Meads;       Woodstock.
Slough       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the Borough
of Slough—       Baylis and Stoke;       Britwell and Northborough;
Central;       Chalvey;       Cippenham Green;       Cippenham Meadows;
Elliman;       Farnham;       Haymill and Lynch Hill;       Langley St.
Mary’s;       Upton;       Wexham Lea.         Southampton Itchen
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Southampton—
Bargate;       Bitterne;       Bitterne Park;       Harefield;       Peartree;
Sholing;       Woolston.         Southampton Test       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the City of Southampton—       Bevois;       Coxford;
Freemantle;       Millbrook;       Portswood;       Redbridge;       Shirley.
Spelthorne       (borough constituency)     The Borough of Spelthorne.
Surrey Heath       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Guildford—       Normandy;       Pirbright.       The Borough of
Surrey Heath.         Sussex Weald       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Wealden—       Chiddingly, East Hoathly &
Waldron;       Crowborough Central;       Crowborough Jarvis Brook;
Crowborough North;       Crowborough St. Johns;       Crowborough South East;
Crowborough South West;       Framfield & Cross-in-Hand;       Frant &
Wadhurst;       Hadlow Down & Rotherfield;       Hailsham Central;
Hailsham East;       Hailsham North;       Hailsham North West;       Hailsham
South;       Hailsham West;       Hartfield;       Heathfield North;
Heathfield South;       Hellingly;       Horam & Punnetts Town;       Mayfield
& Five Ashes;       Withyham.         Tonbridge       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of Sevenoaks—       Ash and New Ash Green;
Cowden and Hever;       Edenbridge North and East;       Edenbridge South and
West;       Hartley and Hodsoll Street;       Leigh and Chiddingstone
Causeway;       Penshurst, Fordcombe and Chiddingstone.       The following
wards of the Borough of Tonbridge and Malling—       Borough Green and Long
Mill;       Cage Green;       Castle;       Downs and Mereworth;       Hadlow
and East Peckham;       Higham;       Hildenborough;       Judd;       Medway;
Trench;       Vauxhall;       Wateringbury;       Wrotham, Ightham and
Stansted.         Tunbridge Wells       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the Borough of Tunbridge Wells—       Brenchley and
Horsmonden;       Broadwater;       Capel;       Culverden;       Goudhurst
and Lamberhurst;       Hawkhurst and Sandhurst;       Paddock Wood East;
Paddock Wood West;       Pantiles and St. Mark’s;       Park;       Pembury;
Rusthall;       St. James’;       St. John’s;       Sherwood;
Southborough and High Brooms;       Southborough North;       Speldhurst and
Bidborough.         Weald of Kent       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the Borough of Ashford—       Biddenden;       Charing;
Downs North;       Downs West;       Isle of Oxney;       Kingsnorth Village &
Bridgefield;       Rolvenden & Tenterden West;       Saxon Shore;
Tenterden North;       Tenterden St. Michael’s;       Tenterden South;
Upper Weald;       Weald Central;       Weald North;       Weald South.
The following wards of the Borough of Maidstone—       Boughton Monchelsea and
Chart Sutton;       Coxheath and Hunton;       Headcorn;       Loose;
Marden and Yalding;       Staplehurst;       Sutton Valence and Langley.
The following wards of the Borough of Tunbridge Wells—       Benenden and
Cranbrook;       Frittenden and Sissinghurst.         Winchester       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Winchester—
Alresford & Itchen Valley;       Badger Farm & Oliver’s Battery;
Bishop’s Waltham;       Central Meon Valley;       Colden Common & Twyford;
St. Barnabas;       St. Bartholomew;       St. Luke;       St. Michael;
St. Paul;       The Worthys;       Upper Meon Valley;       Wonston &
Micheldever.         Windsor       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the Borough of Runnymede—       Englefield Green East;
Englefield Green West;       Virginia Water.       The following wards of the
Borough of Slough—       Colnbrook with Poyle;       Foxborough;       Langley
Kedermister.       The following wards of the Royal Borough of Windsor and
Maidenhead—       Ascot & Sunninghill;       Clewer & Dedworth East;
Clewer & Dedworth West;       Clewer East;       Datchet, Horton & Wraysbury;
Eton & Castle;       Old Windsor;       Sunningdale & Cheapside.
Witney       (county constituency)         The following wards of the District
of Vale of White Horse—       Faringdon;       Kingston Bagpuize;
Thames;       Watchfield & Shrivenham.       The following wards of the
District of West Oxfordshire—       Alvescot and Filkins;       Ascott and
Shipton;       Bampton and Clanfield;       Brize Norton and Shilton;
Burford;       Carterton North East;       Carterton North West;
Carterton South;       Ducklington;       Hailey, Minster Lovell and Leafield;
Milton-under-Wychwood;       Standlake, Aston and Stanton Harcourt;
Witney Central;       Witney East;       Witney North;       Witney South;
Witney West.         Woking       (borough constituency)     The Borough of
Woking.     Wokingham       (county constituency)         The following wards
of the Borough of Wokingham—       Arborfield;       Barkham;       Charvil;
Emmbrook;       Evendons;       Finchampstead North;       Finchampstead
South;       Hurst;       Norreys;       Remenham, Wargrave and Ruscombe;
Swallowfield;       Twyford;       Wescott;       Winnersh;       Wokingham
Without.         Worthing West       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Arun—       Angmering & Findon;       East
Preston;       Ferring.       The following wards of the Borough of Worthing—
Castle;       Central;       Durrington;       Goring;       Heene;
Marine;       Northbrook;       Salvington;       Tarring.         Wycombe
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of
Buckinghamshire—       Abbey;       Booker, Cressex and Castlefield;
Chiltern Villages;       Downley;       Ryemead and Micklefield;
Terriers and Amersham Hill;       Totteridge and Bowerdean;       Tylers Green
and Loudwater;       West Wycombe.

##### South West region

      Name and designation Composition       (1)       The electoral divisions
of Cornwall are those divisions as they existed on 4th May 2021, in accordance
with the Cornwall (Electoral Changes) Order 2019 .             (2)       The
electoral divisions of Wiltshire are those divisions as they existed on 4th
May 2021, in accordance with the Wiltshire (Electoral Changes) Order 2020 .
Bath       (county constituency)         The following wards of the District
of Bath and North East Somerset—       Bathavon North;       Bathwick;
Combe Down;       Kingsmead;       Lambridge;       Lansdown;       Moorlands;
Newbridge;       Odd Down;       Oldfield Park;       Southdown;
Twerton;       Walcot;       Westmoreland;       Weston;       Widcombe &
Lyncombe.         Bournemouth East       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole—
Boscombe East & Pokesdown;       Boscombe West;       East Cliff &
Springbourne;       East Southbourne & Tuckton;       Littledown & Ilford;
Moordown;       Muscliff & Strouden Park;       Queen’s Park;       West
Southbourne.         Bournemouth West       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole—
Alderney & Bourne Valley;       Bournemouth Central;       Kinson;
Redhill & Northbourne;       Talbot & Branksome Woods;       Wallisdown &
Winton West;       Westbourne & West Cliff;       Winton East.
Bridgwater       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Sedgemoor—       Berrow;       Bridgwater Dunwear;
Bridgwater Eastover;       Bridgwater Fairfax;       Bridgwater Hamp;
Bridgwater Victoria;       Bridgwater Westover;       Bridgwater Wyndham;
Burnham Central;       Burnham North;       Cannington and Wembdon;
Highbridge and Burnham Marine;       Huntspill and Pawlett;       King’s Isle;
North Petherton;       Puriton and Woolavington;       Quantocks.
Bristol Central       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the City of Bristol—       Ashley;       Central;       Clifton;       Clifton
Down;       Cotham;       Hotwells & Harbourside;       Redland.
Bristol East       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
City of Bristol—       Brislington East;       Brislington West;       Easton;
Knowle;       Lawrence Hill;       St. George Central;       St. George
Troopers Hill;       St. George West;       Stockwood.         Bristol North
East       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of
Bristol—       Eastville;       Frome Vale;       Hillfields;       Lockleaze.
The following wards of the District of South Gloucestershire—       Kingswood;
New Cheltenham;       Staple Hill & Mangotsfield;       Woodstock.
Bristol North West       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the City of Bristol—       Avonmouth & Lawrence Weston;       Bishopston &
Ashley Down;       Henbury & Brentry;       Horfield;       Southmead;
Stoke Bishop;       Westbury-on-Trym & Henleaze.         Bristol South
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Bristol—
Bedminster;       Bishopsworth;       Filwood;       Hartcliffe & Withywood;
Hengrove & Whitchurch Park;       Southville;       Windmill Hill.
Camborne and Redruth       (county constituency)         The following
electoral divisions of Cornwall —       Camborne Roskear & Tuckingmill;
Camborne Trelowarren;       Camborne West & Treswithian;       Constantine,
Mabe & Mawnan;       Four Lanes, Beacon & Troon;       Gwinear-Gwithian &
Hayle East;       Hayle West;       Illogan & Portreath;       Lanner,
Stithians & Gwennap;       Perranporth;       Pool & Tehidy;       Redruth
Central, Carharrack & St Day;       Redruth North;       Redruth South;
St Agnes.         Central Devon       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Mid Devon—       Boniface;       Bradninch;
Cadbury;       Lawrence;       Newbrooke;       Sandford and Creedy;
Silverton;       Taw;       Taw Vale;       Upper Yeo;       Way;       Yeo.
The following wards of the District of Teignbridge—       Ashburton &
Buckfastleigh;       Bovey;       Chudleigh;       Haytor;       Kenn Valley;
Moretonhampstead;       Teign Valley.       The following wards of the Borough
of West Devon—       Chagford;       Drewsteignton;       Exbourne;
Hatherleigh;       Okehampton North;       Okehampton South;       South
Tawton.         Cheltenham       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the Borough of Cheltenham—       All Saints;       Battledown;
Benhall and the Reddings;       Charlton Kings;       Charlton Park;
College;       Hesters Way;       Lansdown;       Leckhampton;       Oakley;
Park;       Pittville;       St. Mark’s;       St. Paul’s;       St. Peter’s;
Up Hatherley;       Warden Hill.         Chippenham       (county
constituency)         The following electoral divisions of Wiltshire —
Calne Central;       Calne Chilvester & Abberd;       Calne North;       Calne
Rural;       Chippenham Cepen Park & Derriads;       Chippenham Cepen Park &
Hunters Moon;       Chippenham Hardenhuish;       Chippenham Hardens &
Central;       Chippenham Lowden & Rowden;       Chippenham Monkton;
Chippenham Pewsham;       Chippenham Sheldon;       Corsham Ladbrook;
Corsham Pickwick;       Corsham Without;       Lyneham;       Royal Wootton
Bassett East;       Royal Wootton Bassett North;       Royal Wootton Bassett
South & West.         Christchurch       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole—
Burton & Grange;       Christchurch Town;       Commons;       Highcliffe &
Walkford;       Mudeford, Stanpit & West Highcliffe.       The following wards
of the District of Dorset—       Ferndown North;       Ferndown South;
St. Leonards & St. Ives;       West Moors & Three Legged Cross;       West
Parley.         East Wiltshire       (county constituency)         In the
Borough of Swindon—       (a) in the Chiseldon and Lawn ward, polling district
CLB ;       (b) the Ridgeway ward;       (c) the Wroughton and Wichelstowe
ward.       The following electoral divisions of Wiltshire —       Aldbourne &
Ramsbury;       Amesbury East & Bulford;       Amesbury South;       Amesbury
West;       Avon Valley;       Durrington;       Ludgershall North & Rural;
Marlborough East;       Marlborough West;       Pewsey;       Pewsey Vale
East;       Pewsey Vale West;       Tidworth East & Ludgershall South;
Tidworth North & West;       Till Valley.         Exeter       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Exeter—
Alphington;       Duryard & St. James;       Exwick;       Heavitree;
Mincinglake & Whipton;       Newtown & St. Leonard’s;       Pennsylvania;
Priory;       St. David’s;       St. Thomas.         Exmouth and Exeter East
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of East
Devon—       Broadclyst;       Budleigh & Raleigh;       Clyst Valley;
Cranbrook;       Exe Valley;       Exmouth Brixington;       Exmouth Halsdon;
Exmouth Littleham;       Exmouth Town;       Exmouth Withycombe Raleigh;
Whimple & Rockbeare;       Woodbury & Lympstone.       The following wards of
the City of Exeter—       Pinhoe;       St. Loyes;       Topsham.
Filton and Bradley Stoke       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the District of South Gloucestershire—       Bradley Stoke North;
Bradley Stoke South;       Charlton & Cribbs;       Emersons Green;
Filton;       Frenchay & Downend;       Patchway Coniston;       Stoke
Gifford;       Stoke Park & Cheswick;       Winterbourne.         Forest of
Dean       (county constituency)         The District of Forest of Dean.
In the Borough of Tewkesbury, the Highnam with Haw Bridge ward.         Frome
and East Somerset       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the District of Bath and North East Somerset—       Bathavon South;
Midsomer Norton North;       Midsomer Norton Redfield;       Peasedown;
Radstock;       Westfield.       The following wards of the District of
Mendip—       Ammerdown;       Ashwick, Chilcompton and Stratton;
Beckington and Selwood;       Coleford and Holcombe;       Cranmore, Doulting
and Nunney;       Creech;       Frome Berkley Down;       Frome College;
Frome Keyford;       Frome Market;       Frome Oakfield;       Frome Park;
Postlebury;       Rode and Norton St. Philip;       The Pennards and Ditcheat.
Glastonbury and Somerton       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the District of Mendip—       Butleigh and Baltonsborough;
Glastonbury St. Benedict’s;       Glastonbury St. Edmund’s;       Glastonbury
St. John’s;       Glastonbury St. Mary’s;       Street North;       Street
South;       Street West.       The following wards of the District of South
Somerset—       Blackmoor Vale;       Bruton;       Burrow Hill;
Camelot;       Cary;       Curry Rivel, Huish & Langport;       Hamdon;
Islemoor;       Martock;       Milborne Port;       Northstone, Ivelchester &
St. Michael’s;       Tower;       Turn Hill;       Wessex;       Wincanton.
Gloucester       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
City of Gloucester—       Abbeydale;       Abbeymead;       Barnwood;
Barton & Tredworth;       Coney Hill;       Grange;       Hucclecote;
Kingholm & Wotton;       Kingsway;       Matson & Robinswood;       Moreland;
Podsmead;       Quedgeley Fieldcourt;       Quedgeley Severn Vale;
Tuffley;       Westgate.         Honiton and Sidmouth       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of East Devon—
Axminster;       Beer & Branscombe;       Coly Valley;       Dunkeswell &
Otterhead;       Feniton;       Honiton St. Michael’s;       Honiton St.
Paul’s;       Newbridges;       Newton Poppleford & Harpford;       Ottery St.
Mary;       Seaton;       Sidmouth Rural;       Sidmouth Sidford;
Sidmouth Town;       Tale Vale;       Trinity;       West Hill & Aylesbeare;
Yarty.       The following wards of the District of Mid Devon—
Cullompton North;       Cullompton Outer;       Cullompton South.
Melksham and Devizes       (county constituency)         The following
electoral divisions of Wiltshire —       Bowerhill;       Box & Colerne;
Bradford-on-Avon North;       Bradford-on-Avon South;       Bromham, Rowde &
Roundway;       Calne South;       Devizes East;       Devizes North;
Devizes Rural West;       Devizes South;       Holt;       Melksham East;
Melksham Forest;       Melksham South;       Melksham Without North &
Shurnhold;       Melksham Without West & Rural;       The Lavingtons;
Urchfont & Bishops Cannings;       Winsley & Westwood.         Mid Dorset and
North Poole       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole—       Bearwood & Merley;
Broadstone;       Canford Heath.       In the District of Dorset—       (a)
the Colehill & Wimborne Minster East ward;       (b) the Corfe Mullen ward;
(c) the Lytchett Matravers & Upton ward;       (d) the Stour & Allen Vale
ward;       (e) the Wareham ward;       (f) in the West Purbeck ward, polling
districts WPU2 and WPU3 ;       (g) the Wimborne Minster ward.         Newton
Abbot       (county constituency)         The following wards of the District
of Teignbridge—       Ambrook;       Bishopsteignton;       Bradley;
Buckland & Milber;       Bushell;       College;       Dawlish North East;
Dawlish South West;       Ipplepen;       Kenton & Starcross;       Kerswell-
with-Combe;       Kingsteignton East;       Kingsteignton West;       Shaldon
& Stokeinteignhead;       Teignmouth Central;       Teignmouth East;
Teignmouth West.         North Cornwall       (county constituency)
The following electoral divisions of Cornwall —       Altarnun & Stoke
Climsland;       Bodmin St Mary’s & St. Leonard;       Bodmin St Petroc’s;
Bude;       Camelford & Boscastle;       Lanivet, Blisland & Bodmin St
Lawrence;       Launceston North & North Petherwin;       Launceston South;
Padstow;       Poundstock;       St Columb Major, St Mawgan & St Wenn;
St Teath & Tintagel;       Stratton, Kilkhampton & Morwenstow;
Wadebridge East & St Minver;       Wadebridge West & St Mabyn.         North
Cotswolds       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Cotswold—       Blockley;       Bourton Vale;       Bourton
Village;       Campden & Vale;       Chedworth & Churn Valley;       Coln
Valley;       Ermin;       Fosseridge;       Moreton East;       Moreton West;
Northleach;       Sandywell;       Stow;       The Rissingtons.       The
following wards of the District of Stroud—       Bisley;       Hardwicke;
Minchinhampton;       Painswick & Upton.       The following wards of the
Borough of Tewkesbury—       Badgeworth;       Brockworth East;
Brockworth West;       Churchdown Brookfield with Hucclecote;       Churchdown
St. John’s;       Shurdington.         North Devon       (county constituency)
The District of North Devon.     North Dorset       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of Dorset—       Beacon;       Blackmore
Vale;       Blandford;       Cranborne & Alderholt;       Cranborne Chase;
Gillingham;       Hill Forts & Upper Tarrants;       Puddletown & Lower
Winterborne;       Shaftesbury Town;       Stalbridge & Marnhull;
Sturminster Newton;       Verwood;       Winterborne North.         North East
Somerset and Hanham       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the District of Bath and North East Somerset—       Chew Valley;       Clutton
& Farmborough;       High Littleton;       Keynsham East;       Keynsham
North;       Keynsham South;       Mendip;       Paulton;       Publow &
Whitchurch;       Saltford;       Timsbury.       The following wards of the
District of South Gloucestershire—       Bitton & Oldland Common;
Hanham;       Longwell Green;       Parkwall & Warmley.         North Somerset
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of North
Somerset—       Backwell;       Clevedon East;       Clevedon South;
Clevedon Walton;       Clevedon West;       Clevedon Yeo;       Gordano
Valley;       Long Ashton;       Nailsea Golden Valley;       Nailsea West
End;       Nailsea Yeo;       Nailsea Youngwood;       Pill;       Portishead
East;       Portishead North;       Portishead South;       Portishead West;
Winford;       Wrington.         Plymouth Moor View       (borough
constituency)         In the City of Plymouth—       (a) the Budshead ward;
(b) the Eggbuckland ward;       (c) the Ham ward;       (d) the Honicknowle
ward;       (e) the Moor View ward;       (f) in the Peverell ward, polling
districts KC and KD ;       (g) the Southway ward;       (h) the St. Budeaux
ward.         Plymouth Sutton and Devonport       (borough constituency)
In the City of Plymouth—       (a) the Compton ward;       (b) the Devonport
ward;       (c) the Drake ward;       (d) the Efford and Lipson ward;
(e) in the Peverell ward, polling districts KA, KB and KE ;       (f) the St.
Peter and the Waterfront ward;       (g) the Stoke ward;       (h) the Sutton
and Mount Gould ward.         Poole       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Bournemouth, Christchurch and Poole—
Canford Cliffs;       Creekmoor;       Hamworthy;       Newtown &
Heatherlands;       Oakdale;       Parkstone;       Penn Hill;       Poole
Town.         Salisbury       (county constituency)         The following
electoral divisions of Wiltshire —       Alderbury & Whiteparish;
Downton & Ebble Valley;       Fovant & Chalke Valley;       Laverstock;
Nadder Valley;       Old Sarum & Lower Bourne Valley;       Redlynch &
Landford;       Salisbury Bemerton Heath;       Salisbury Fisherton & Bemerton
Village;       Salisbury Harnham East;       Salisbury Harnham West;
Salisbury Milford;       Salisbury St Edmund’s;       Salisbury St Francis &
Stratford;       Salisbury St Paul’s;       Tisbury;       Wilton;
Winterslow & Upper Bourne Valley.         South Cotswolds       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Cotswold—
Abbey;       Chesteron;       Fairford North;       Four Acres;
Grumbolds Ash with Avening;       Kemble;       Lechlade, Kempsford & Fairford
South;       New Mills;       St. Michael’s;       Siddington & Cerney Rural;
South Cerney Village;       Stratton;       Tetbury East & Rural;
Tetbury Town;       Tetbury with Upton;       The Ampneys & Hampton;       The
Beeches;       Watermoor.       In the District of Stroud, the Kingswood ward.
The following electoral divisions of Wiltshire —       Brinkworth;       By
Brook;       Cricklade & Latton;       Kington;       Malmesbury;
Minety;       Purton;       Sherston.         South Devon       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of South Hams—
Allington & Strete;       Blackawton & Stoke Fleming;       Charterlands;
Dartington & Staverton;       Dartmouth & East Dart;       Kingsbridge;
Loddiswell & Aveton Gifford;       Marldon & Littlehempston;       Salcombe &
Thurlestone;       South Brent;       Stokenham;       Totnes;       West
Dart.       The following wards of the Borough of Torbay—       Churston with
Galmpton;       Collaton St. Mary;       Furzeham with Summercombe;
King’s Ash;       St. Peter’s with St. Mary’s.         South Dorset
(county constituency)         In the District of Dorset—       (a) the
Chickerell ward;       (b) the Crossways ward;       (c) the Littlemoor &
Preston ward;       (d) the Melcombe Regis ward;       (e) the Portland ward;
(f) the Radipole ward;       (g) the Rodwell & Wyke ward;       (h) the South
East Purbeck ward;       (i) the Swanage ward;       (j) the Upwey & Broadwey
ward;       (k) in the West Purbeck ward, polling districts WPU1, WPU4, WPU5,
WPU6, WPU7, WPU8, WPU9, WPU10, WPU11, WPU12 and WPU13 ;       (l) the Westham
ward.         South East Cornwall       (county constituency)         The
following electoral divisions of Cornwall —       Callington & St Dominic;
Calstock;       Liskeard Central;       Liskeard South & Dobwalls;       Looe
East & Deviock;       Looe West, Pelynt, Lansallos & Lanteglos;
Lostwithiel & Lanreath;       Lynher;       Rame Peninsula & St Germans;
St Cleer & Menheniot;       Saltash Essa;       Saltash Tamar;       Saltash
Trematon & Landrake;       Torpoint.         South West Devon       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Plymouth—
Plympton Chaddlewood;       Plympton Erle;       Plympton St. Mary;
Plymstock Dunstone;       Plymstock Radford.       The following wards of the
District of South Hams—       Bickleigh & Cornwood;       Ermington &
Ugborough;       Ivybridge East;       Ivybridge West;       Newton &
Yealmpton;       Wembury & Brixton;       Woolwell.       The following wards
of the Borough of West Devon—       Buckland Monachorum;       Burrator.
South West Wiltshire       (county constituency)         The following
electoral divisions of Wiltshire —       Ethandune;       Hilperton;
Mere;       Southwick;       Trowbridge Adcroft;       Trowbridge Central;
Trowbridge Drynham;       Trowbridge Grove;       Trowbridge Lambrok;
Trowbridge Park;       Trowbridge Paxcroft;       Warminster Broadway;
Warminster East;       Warminster North & Rural;       Warminster West;
Westbury East;       Westbury North;       Westbury West;       Wylye Valley.
St Austell and Newquay       (county constituency)         The following
electoral divisions of Cornwall —       Fowey, Tywardreath & Par;
Mevagissey & St Austell Bay;       Newquay Central & Pentire;       Newquay
Porth & Tretherras;       Newquay Trenance;       Penwithick & Boscoppa;
Roche & Bugle;       St Austell Bethel & Holmbush;       St Austell Central &
Gover;       St Austell Poltair & Mount Charles;       St Blazey;       St
Columb Minor & Colan;       St Dennis & St Enoder;       St Mewan & Grampound;
St Stephen-in-Brannel.         St Ives       (county constituency)         The
following electoral divisions of Cornwall —       Crowan, Sithney & Wendron;
Helston North;       Helston South & Meneage;       Land’s End;       Long
Rock, Marazion & St Erth;       Ludgvan, Madron, Gulval & Heamoor;
Mousehole, Newlyn & St Buryan;       Mullion & St Keverne;       Penzance
East;       Penzance Promenade;       Porthleven, Breage & Germoe;       St
Ives East, Lelant & Carbis Bay;       St Ives West & Towednack.       The
Isles of Scilly.         Stroud       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Stroud—       Amberley and Woodchester;
Berkeley Vale;       Cainscross;       Cam East;       Cam West;
Chalford;       Coaley & Uley;       Dursley;       Nailsworth;
Randwick, Whiteshill & Ruscombe;       Rodborough;       Severn;
Stonehouse;       Stroud Central;       Stroud Farmhill & Paganhill;
Stroud Slade;       Stroud Trinity;       Stroud Uplands;       Stroud Valley;
The Stanleys;       Thrupp;       Wotton-under-Edge.         Swindon North
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Swindon—
Blunsdon and Highworth;       Gorse Hill and Pinehurst;       Haydon Wick;
Penhill and Upper Stratton;       Priory Vale;       Rodbourne Cheney;
St. Andrews;       St. Margaret and South Marston.         Swindon South
(borough constituency)         In the Borough of Swindon—       (a) the
Central ward;       (b) in the Chiseldon and Lawn ward, polling districts CLA,
CLC and CLD ;       (c) the Covingham and Dorcan ward;       (d) the Eastcott
ward;       (e) the Liden, Eldene and Park South ward;       (f) the Lydiard
and Freshbrook ward;       (g) the Mannington and Western ward;       (h) the
Old Town ward;       (i) the Shaw ward;       (j) the Walcot and Park North
ward.         Taunton and Wellington       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Somerset West and Taunton—       Blackbrook
& Holway;       Comeytrowe & Bishop’s Hull;       Creech St. Michael;
Halcon & Lane;       Hatch & Blackdown;       Manor & Tangier;       Monument;
North Curry & Ruishton;       North Town;       Norton Fitzwarren &
Staplegrove;       Priorswood;       Rockwell Green;       Trull, Pitminster
and Corfe;       Victoria;       Vivary;       Wellington East;
Wellington North;       Wellington South;       Wellsprings & Rowbarton;
West Monkton & Cheddon Fitzpaine;       Wilton & Sherford.         Tewkesbury
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of
Cheltenham—       Prestbury;       Springbank;       Swindon Village.
The following wards of the City of Gloucester—       Elmbridge;
Longlevens.       The following wards of the Borough of Tewkesbury—
Cleeve Grange;       Cleeve Hill;       Cleeve St. Michael’s;       Cleeve
West;       Innsworth;       Isbourne;       Northway;       Severn Vale
North;       Severn Vale South;       Tewkesbury East;       Tewkesbury North
& Twyning;       Tewkesbury South;       Winchcombe.         Thornbury and
Yate       (county constituency)         The following wards of the District
of South Gloucestershire—       Boyd Valley;       Charfield;       Chipping
Sodbury & Cotswold Edge;       Dodington;       Frampton Cotterell;
Pilning & Severn Beach;       Severn Vale;       Thornbury;       Yate
Central;       Yate North.         Tiverton and Minehead       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Mid Devon—
Canonsleigh;       Castle;       Clare and Shuttern;       Cranmore;
Halberton;       Lower Culm;       Lowman;       Upper Culm;       Westexe.
The following wards of the District of Somerset West and Taunton—
Alcombe;       Cotford St. Luke & Oake;       Dulverton & District;
Exmoor;       Milverton & District;       Minehead Central;       Minehead
North;       Old Cleeve & District;       Periton & Woodcombe;       Porlock &
District;       Quantock Vale;       South Quantock;       Watchet & Williton;
Wiveliscombe & District.         Torbay       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Torbay—       Barton with Watcombe;
Clifton with Maidenway;       Cockington with Chelston;       Ellacombe;
Goodrington with Roselands;       Preston;       Roundham with Hyde;       St.
Marychurch;       Shiphay;       Tormohun;       Wellswood.         Torridge
and Tavistock       (county constituency)         The District of Torridge.
The following wards of the Borough of West Devon—       Bere Ferrers;
Bridestowe;       Dartmoor;       Mary Tavy;       Milton Ford;
Tamarside;       Tavistock North;       Tavistock South East;       Tavistock
South West.         Truro and Falmouth       (county constituency)         The
following electoral divisions of Cornwall —       Falmouth Arwenack;
Falmouth Boslowick;       Falmouth Penwerris;       Falmouth Trescobeas &
Budock;       Feock & Kea;       Gloweth, Malabar & Shortlanesend;
Mylor, Perranarworthal & Ponsanooth;       Penryn;       Probus & St Erme;
St Goran, Tregony & the Roseland;       St Newlyn East, Cubert & Goonhavern;
Threemilestone & Chacewater;       Truro Boscawen & Redannick;       Truro
Moresk & Trehaverne;       Truro Tregolls.         Wells and Mendip Hills
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of Mendip—
Chewton Mendip and Ston Easton;       Croscombe and Pilton;       Moor;
Rodney and Westbury;       St. Cuthbert Out North;       Shepton East;
Shepton West;       Wells Central;       Wells St. Cuthbert’s;       Wells St.
Thomas’;       Wookey and St. Cuthbert Out West.       The following wards of
the District of North Somerset—       Banwell & Winscombe;       Blagdon &
Churchill;       Congresbury & Puxton;       Yatton.       The following wards
of the District of Sedgemoor—       Axevale;       Cheddar and Shipham;
East Polden;       Knoll;       Wedmore and Mark;       West Polden.
West Dorset       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
District of Dorset—       Beaminster;       Bridport;       Chalk Valleys;
Charminster St. Mary’s;       Chesil Bank;       Dorchester East;
Dorchester Poundbury;       Dorchester West;       Eggardon;       Lyme &
Charmouth;       Marshwood Vale;       Sherborne East;       Sherborne Rural;
Sherborne West;       Winterborne & Broadmayne;       Yetminster.
Weston-super-Mare       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the District of North Somerset—       Hutton & Locking;       Weston-super-
Mare Central;       Weston-super-Mare Hillside;       Weston-super-Mare
Kewstoke;       Weston-super-Mare Mid Worle;       Weston-super-Mare Milton;
Weston-super-Mare North Worle;       Weston-super-Mare South;       Weston-
super-Mare South Worle;       Weston-super-Mare Uphill;       Weston-super-
Mare Winterstoke;       Wick St. Lawrence & St. Georges.         Yeovil
(county constituency)         The following wards of the District of South
Somerset—       Blackdown & Tatworth;       Brympton;       Chard Avishayes;
Chard Combe;       Chard Crimchard;       Chard Holyrood;       Chard Jocelyn;
Coker;       Crewkerne;       Eggwood;       Ilminster;       Neroche;
Parrett;       South Petherton;       Windwhistle;       Yeovil College;
Yeovil Lyde;       Yeovil Summerlands;       Yeovil Westland;       Yeovil
Without.

##### West Midlands region

      Name and designation Composition       Aldridge-Brownhills
(borough constituency)         In the Borough of Walsall—       the Aldridge
Central and South ward;       the Aldridge North and Walsall Wood ward;
the Brownhills ward;       in the Paddock ward, polling districts UE and UF ;
the Pelsall ward;       the Pheasey Park Farm ward;       the Rushall-
Shelfield ward;       the Streetly ward.         Birmingham Edgbaston
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Birmingham—
Bartley Green;       Edgbaston;       Harborne;       North Edgbaston;
Quinton.         Birmingham Erdington       (borough constituency)         In
the City of Birmingham—       (a) the Castle Vale ward;       (b) the
Erdington ward;       (c) the Gravelly Hill ward;       (d) the Kingstanding
ward;       (e) in the Oscott ward, polling districts OSC4, OSC5, OSC7 and
OSC8 ;       (f) the Perry Common ward;       (g) the Pype Hayes ward;
(h) the Stockland Green ward.         Birmingham Hall Green and Moseley
(borough constituency)         In the City of Birmingham—       (a) in the
Brandwood & King’s Heath ward, polling districts BKH1HG, BKH2HG and BKH3 ;
(b) the Hall Green North ward;       (c) the Hall Green South ward;       (d)
the Moseley ward;       (e) the Sparkbrook & Balsall Heath East ward;
(f) the Sparkhill ward.         Birmingham Hodge Hill and Solihull North
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Birmingham—
Bromford & Hodge Hill;       Garretts Green;       Glebe Farm & Tile Cross;
Heartlands;       Shard End;       Ward End.       The following wards of the
Metropolitan Borough of Solihull—       Castle Bromwich;       Smith’s Wood.
Birmingham Ladywood       (borough constituency)         The following wards
of the City of Birmingham—       Alum Rock;       Balsall Heath West;
Bordesley & Highgate;       Bordesley Green;       Ladywood;       Nechells;
Newtown;       Soho & Jewellery Quarter.         Birmingham Northfield
(borough constituency)         In the City of Birmingham—       (a) the Allens
Cross ward;       (b) the Frankley Great Park ward;       (c) the King’s
Norton North ward;       (d) the King’s Norton South ward;       (e) the
Longbridge & West Heath ward;       (f) the Northfield ward;       (g) the
Rubery & Rednal ward;       (h) in the Weoley & Selly Oak ward, polling
districts WSO1ED, WSO4, WSO6, WSO7, WSO8, WSO9 and WSO10 .         Birmingham
Perry Barr       (borough constituency)         In the City of Birmingham—
(a) the Aston ward;       (b) the Birchfield ward;       (c) the Handsworth
ward;       (d) the Handsworth Wood ward;       (e) the Holyhead ward;
(f) the Lozells ward;       (g) in the Oscott ward, polling districts OSC1,
OSC2, OSC3 and OSC6 ;       (h) the Perry Barr ward.         Birmingham Selly
Oak       (borough constituency)         In the City of Birmingham—       (a)
the Billesley ward;       (b) the Bournbrook & Selly Park ward;       (c) the
Bournville & Cotteridge ward;       (d) in the Brandwood & King’s Heath ward,
polling districts BKH4, BKH5 and BKH6 ;       (e) the Druids Heath & Monyhull
ward;       (f) the Highter’s Heath ward;       (g) the Stirchley ward;
(h) in the Weoley & Selly Oak ward, polling districts WSO2SO, WSO3SO and
WSO5SO .         Birmingham Yardley       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Birmingham—       Acocks Green;       Sheldon;
Small Heath;       South Yardley;       Tyseley & Hay Mills;       Yardley
East;       Yardley West & Stechford.         Bromsgrove       (county
constituency)     The District of Bromsgrove.     Burton and Uttoxeter
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of East
Staffordshire—       Abbey;       Anglesey;       Branston;       Brizlincote;
Burton;       Churnet;       Crown;       Eton Park;       Heath;
Horninglow;       Rolleston on Dove;       Shobnall;       Stapenhill;
Stretton;       Town;       Tutbury and Outwoods;       Weaver;
Winshill.         Cannock Chase       (county constituency)     The District
of Cannock Chase.     Coventry East       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Coventry—       Binley and Willenhall;
Foleshill;       Henley;       Longford;       Upper Stoke;       Wyken.
Coventry North West       (borough constituency)         The following wards
of the City of Coventry—       Bablake;       Holbrook;       Radford;
Sherbourne;       Whoberley;       Woodlands.         Coventry South
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of Coventry—
Cheylesmore;       Earlsdon;       Lower Stoke;       St. Michael’s;
Wainbody;       Westwood.         Droitwich and Evesham       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Wychavon—
Badsey;       Bengeworth;       Bowbrook;       Bretforton and Offenham;
Broadway and Wickhamford;       Drakes Broughton;       Droitwich Central;
Droitwich East;       Droitwich South East;       Droitwich South West;
Droitwich West;       Evesham North;       Evesham South;       Fladbury;
Great Hampton;       Hartlebury;       Honeybourne and Pebworth;       Little
Hampton;       Lovett and North Claines;       Norton and Whittington;
Ombersley;       Pinvin;       The Littletons;       Upton Snodsbury.
Dudley       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
Metropolitan Borough of Dudley—       Brockmoor and Pensnett;       Castle and
Priory;       Gornal;       St. James’s;       St. Thomas’s;       Sedgley;
Upper Gornal and Woodsetton.         Halesowen       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Dudley—       Belle Vale;
Cradley and Wollescote;       Halesowen North;       Halesowen South;
Hayley Green and Cradley South;       Quarry Bank and Dudley Wood.       In
the Metropolitan Borough of Sandwell—       (a) in the Blackheath ward,
polling district BLG ;       (b) the Cradley Heath and Old Hill ward.
Hereford and South Herefordshire       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of Herefordshire—       Aylestone Hill;
Belmont Rural;       Birch;       Bobblestock;       Central;       College;
Dinedor Hill;       Eign Hill;       Golden Valley North;       Golden Valley
South;       Greyfriars;       Hinton & Hunderton;       Kerne Bridge;
Kings Acre;       Llangarron;       Newton Farm;       Penyard;       Red
Hill;       Ross East;       Ross North;       Ross West;       Saxon Gate;
Stoney Street;       Tupsley;       Whitecross;       Widemarsh;
Wormside.         Kenilworth and Southam       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Rugby—       Dunsmore;       Leam
Valley.       The following wards of the District of Stratford-on-Avon—
Bishop’s Itchington;       Harbury;       Kineton;       Long Itchington &
Stockton;       Napton & Fenny Compton;       Red Horse;       Southam North;
Southam South;       Wellesbourne East;       Wellesbourne West.       The
following wards of the District of Warwick—       Budbrooke;       Cubbington
& Leek Wootton;       Kenilworth Abbey & Arden;       Kenilworth Park Hill;
Kenilworth St. John’s.         Kingswinford and South Staffordshire
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Dudley—       Kingswinford North and Wall Heath;       Kingswinford South;
Wordsley.       The following wards of the District of South Staffordshire—
Bilbrook;       Codsall North;       Codsall South;       Himley and Swindon;
Kinver;       Pattingham and Patshull;       Perton Dippons;       Perton
East;       Perton Lakeside;       Trysull and Seisdon;       Wombourne North
and Lower Penn;       Wombourne South East;       Wombourne South West.
Lichfield       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of East Staffordshire—       Bagots;       Needwood;       Yoxall.
In the District of Lichfield—       (a) the Alrewas & Fradley ward;       (b)
the Armitage with Handsacre ward;       (c) the Boley Park ward;       (d) the
Boney Hay & Central ward;       (e) the Chadsmead ward;       (f) the Chase
Terrace ward;       (g) the Chasetown ward;       (h) the Colton & the
Ridwares ward;       (i) the Curborough ward;       (j) the Hammerwich with
Wall ward;       (k) the Highfield ward;       (l) the Leomansley ward;
(m) the Longdon ward;       (n) the St. John’s ward;       (o) the Stowe ward;
(p) the Summerfield & All Saints;       (q) in the Whittington & Streethay
ward, polling district AD .         Meriden and Solihull East       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of
Solihull—       Bickenhill;       Chelmsley Wood;       Dorridge and Hockley
Heath;       Elmdon;       Kingshurst and Fordbridge;       Knowle;
Meriden;       Silhill.         Newcastle-under-Lyme       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Newcastle-under-
Lyme—       Audley;       Bradwell;       Clayton;       Crackley & Red
Street;       Cross Heath;       Holditch & Chesterton;       Keele;
Knutton;       Madeley & Betley;       May Bank;       Silverdale;
Thistleberry;       Town;       Westbury Park & Northwood;       Westlands;
Wolstanton.         North Herefordshire       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of Herefordshire—       Arrow;
Backbury;       Bircher;       Bishops Frome & Cradley;       Bromyard
Bringsty;       Bromyard West;       Castle;       Credenhill;       Hagley;
Hampton;       Holmer;       Hope End;       Kington;       Ledbury North;
Ledbury South;       Ledbury West;       Leominster East;       Leominster
North & Rural;       Leominster South;       Leominster West;       Mortimer;
Old Gore;       Queenswood;       Sutton Walls;       Three Crosses;
Weobley.         North Shropshire       (county constituency)         The
following electoral divisions of the County of Shropshire—       Ellesmere
Urban;       Gobowen, Selattyn and Weston Rhyn;       Llanymynech;
Market Drayton East;       Market Drayton West;       Oswestry East;
Oswestry South;       Oswestry West;       Prees;       Ruyton and Baschurch;
St. Martin’s;       St. Oswald;       Shawbury;       The Meres;       Wem;
Whitchurch North;       Whitchurch South;       Whittington.         North
Warwickshire and Bedworth       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the Borough of North Warwickshire—       Atherstone Central;
Atherstone North;       Atherstone South and Mancetter;       Baddesley and
Grendon;       Coleshill North;       Coleshill South;       Curdworth;
Dordon;       Fillongley;       Hurley and Wood End;       Kingsbury;
Newton Regis and Warton;       Polesworth East;       Polesworth West;
Water Orton.       The following wards of the Borough of Nuneaton and
Bedworth—       Bede;       Exhall;       Heath;       Poplar;       Slough.
Nuneaton       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of North Warwickshire—       Arley and Whitacre;       Hartshill.
The following wards of the Borough of Nuneaton and Bedworth—       Abbey;
Arbury;       Attleborough;       Bar Pool;       Camp Hill;       Galley
Common;       Kingswood;       St. Nicolas;       Weddington;       Wem Brook;
Whitestone.         Redditch       (county constituency)         The Borough
of Redditch.       The following wards of the District of Wychavon—
Dodderhill;       Harvington and Norton;       Inkberrow.         Rugby
(county constituency)         In the Borough of Nuneaton and Bedworth, the
Bulkington ward.       The following wards of the Borough of Rugby—
Admirals and Cawston;       Benn;       Bilton;       Clifton, Newton and
Churchover;       Coton and Boughton;       Eastlands;       Hillmorton;
New Bilton;       Newbold and Brownsover;       Paddox;       Revel and Binley
Woods;       Rokeby and Overslade;       Wolston and the Lawfords;
Wolvey and Shilton.         Shrewsbury       (county constituency)         The
following electoral divisions of the County of Shropshire—       Abbey;
Bagley;       Battlefield;       Bayston Hill, Column and Sutton;       Belle
Vue;       Bowbrook;       Castlefields and Ditherington;       Copthorne;
Harlescott;       Longden;       Loton;       Meole;       Monkmoor;
Porthill;       Quarry and Coton Hill;       Radbrook;       Rea Valley;
Sundorne;       Tern;       Underdale.         Smethwick       (borough
constituency)         In the Metropolitan Borough of Sandwell—       (a) the
Abbey ward;       (b) in the Blackheath ward, polling districts BLA, BLB, BLC,
BLD, BLE, BLF and BLH ;       (c) the Bristnall ward;       (d) the Langley
ward;       (e) the Old Warley ward;       (f) the St. Pauls ward;       (g)
the Smethwick ward;       (h) the Soho and Victoria ward.         Solihull
West and Shirley       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the Metropolitan Borough of Solihull—       Blythe;       Lyndon;       Olton;
St. Alphege;       Shirley East;       Shirley South;       Shirley West.
South Shropshire       (county constituency)         The following electoral
divisions of the County of Shropshire—       Alveley and Claverley;
Bishop’s Castle;       Bridgnorth East and Astley Abbotts;       Bridgnorth
West and Tasley;       Broseley;       Brown Clee;       Burnell;
Chirbury and Worthen;       Church Stretton and Craven Arms;       Clee;
Cleobury Mortimer;       Clun;       Corvedale;       Highley;       Ludlow
East;       Ludlow North;       Ludlow South;       Much Wenlock;       Severn
Valley;       Worfield.         Stafford       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Newcastle-under-Lyme—       Loggerheads;
Maer & Whitmore.       The following wards of the Borough of Stafford—
Baswich;       Common;       Coton;       Doxey & Castletown;
Eccleshall;       Forebridge;       Gnosall & Woodseaves;       Highfields &
Western Downs;       Holmcroft;       Littleworth;       Manor;
Penkside;       Rowley;       Seighford & Church Eaton;       Weeping Cross &
Wildwood.         Staffordshire Moorlands       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of Staffordshire Moorlands—       Alton;
Bagnall and Stanley;       Biddulph East;       Biddulph Moor;       Biddulph
North;       Biddulph South;       Biddulph West;       Brown Edge and Endon;
Caverswall;       Cellarhead;       Cheadle North East;       Cheadle South
East;       Cheadle West;       Cheddleton;       Churnet;       Dane;
Hamps Valley;       Horton;       Ipstones;       Leek East;       Leek North;
Leek South;       Leek West;       Manifold;       Werrington.         Stoke-
on-Trent Central       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the City of Stoke-on-Trent—       Abbey Hulton and Townsend;       Bentilee
and Ubberley;       Birches Head and Central Forest Park;       Boothen and
Oak Hill;       Eaton Park;       Etruria and Hanley;       Fenton East;
Fenton West and Mount Pleasant;       Hanley Park and Shelton;       Hartshill
and Basford;       Joiner’s Square;       Meir Hay;       Penkhull and Stoke;
Sandford Hill;       Sneyd Green;       Springfields and Trent Vale.
Stoke-on-Trent North       (borough constituency)         The following wards
of the Borough of Newcastle-under-Lyme—       Kidsgrove & Ravenscliffe;
Newchapel & Mow Cop;       Talke & Butt Lane.       The following wards of the
City of Stoke-on-Trent—       Baddeley, Milton and Norton;       Bradeley and
Chell Heath;       Burslem Central;       Burslem Park;       Ford Green and
Smallthorne;       Goldenhill and Sandyford;       Great Chell and Packmoor;
Little Chell and Stanfield;       Moorcroft;       Tunstall.         Stoke-on-
Trent South       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
Borough of Stafford—       Barlaston;       Fulford;       Swynnerton &
Oulton.       The following wards of the District of Staffordshire Moorlands—
Checkley;       Forsbrook.       The following wards of the City of Stoke-on-
Trent—       Blurton East;       Blurton West and Newstead;       Broadway and
Longton East;       Dresden and Florence;       Hanford and Trentham;
Hollybush and Longton West;       Lightwood North and Normacot;       Meir
North;       Meir Park;       Meir South;       Weston Coyney.         Stone,
Great Wyrley and Penkridge       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the District of South Staffordshire—       Brewood and Coven;
Cheslyn Hay North and Saredon;       Cheslyn Hay South;       Essington;
Featherstone and Shareshill;       Great Wyrley Landywood;       Great Wyrley
Town;       Huntington and Hatherton;       Penkridge North East and Acton
Trussell;       Penkridge South East;       Penkridge West;       Wheaton
Aston, Bishopswood and Lapley.       The following wards of the Borough of
Stafford—       Haywood & Hixon;       Milford;       Milwich;       St.
Michael’s & Stonefield;       Walton.         Stourbridge       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Dudley—
Amblecote;       Brierley Hill;       Lye and Stourbridge North;
Netherton, Woodside and St. Andrews;       Norton;       Pedmore and
Stourbridge East;       Wollaston and Stourbridge Town.         Stratford-on-
Avon       (county constituency)         The following wards of the District
of Stratford-on-Avon—       Alcester & Rural;       Alcester Town;
Avenue;       Bidford East;       Bidford West & Salford;       Bishopton;
Brailes & Compton;       Bridgetown;       Clopton;       Ettington;
Guildhall;       Hathaway;       Henley-in-Arden;       Kinwarton;
Quinton;       Shipston North;       Shipston South;       Shottery;
Snitterfield;       Studley with Mappleborough Green;       Studley with
Sambourne;       Tanworth-in-Arden;       Tiddington;       Welcombe;
Welford-on-Avon;       Wotton Wawen.         Sutton Coldfield       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Birmingham—
Sutton Four Oaks;       Sutton Mere Green;       Sutton Reddicap;       Sutton
Roughley;       Sutton Trinity;       Sutton Vesey;       Sutton Walmley &
Minworth;       Sutton Wylde Green.         Tamworth       (county
constituency)         In the District of Lichfield—       (a) the Bourne Vale
ward;       (b) the Fazeley ward;       (c) the Little Aston & Stonnall ward;
(d) the Mease Valley ward;       (e) the Shenstone ward;       (f) in the
Whittington & Streethay ward, polling districts JA, YA, YB, YC, ZA and ZB .
The Borough of Tamworth.         Telford       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of Telford and Wrekin—       Brookside;
Dawley & Aqueduct;       Horsehay & Lightmoor;       Ironbridge Gorge;
Ketley & Overdale;       Madeley & Sutton Hill;       Malinslee & Dawley Bank;
Oakengates & Ketley Bank;       Priorslee;       St. Georges;       The Nedge;
Woodside;       Wrockwardine Wood & Trench.         The Wrekin       (county
constituency)         The following electoral divisions of the County of
Shropshire—       Albrighton;       Cheswardine;       Hodnet;       Shifnal
North;       Shifnal South and Cosford.       The following wards of the
Borough of Telford and Wrekin—       Admaston & Bratton;       Apley Castle;
Arleston;       Church Aston & Lilleshall;       College;       Donnington;
Dothill;       Edgmond & Ercall Magna;       Ercall;       Hadley & Leegomery;
Haygate;       Muxton;       Newport North & West;       Newport South & East;
Park;       Shawbirch;       Wrockwardine.         Tipton and Wednesbury
(borough constituency)         In the Borough of Dudley, the Coseley East
ward.       The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Sandwell—
Friar Park;       Great Bridge;       Hateley Heath;       Princes End;
Tipton Green;       Wednesbury North;       Wednesbury South.         Walsall
and Bloxwich       (borough constituency)         In the Metropolitan Borough
of Walsall—       (a) the Birchills Leamore ward;       (b) the Blakenall
ward;       (c) the Bloxwich East ward;       (d) the Bloxwich West ward;
(e) in the Paddock ward, polling districts UA, UB, UC and UD ;       (f) the
Palfrey ward;       (g) the Pleck ward;       (h) the St. Matthew’s ward.
Warwick and Leamington       (county constituency)         The following wards
of the District of Warwick—       Bishop’s Tachbrook;       Leamington
Brunswick;       Leamington Clarendon;       Leamington Lillington;
Leamington Milverton;       Leamington Willes;       Radford Semele;
Warwick All Saints and Woodloes;       Warwick Aylesford;       Warwick Myton
& Heathcote;       Warwick Saltisford;       Whitnash.         West Bromwich
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Sandwell—       Charlemont with Grove Vale;       Great Barr with Yew Tree;
Greets Green and Lyng;       Newton;       Oldbury;       Rowley;
Tividale;       West Bromwich Central.         West Worcestershire
(county constituency)         The District of Malvern Hills.       The
following wards of the District of Wychavon—       Bredon;       Eckington;
Elmley Castle and Somerville;       Pershore;       South Bredon Hill.
Wolverhampton North East       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Walsall—       Short Heath;
Willenhall North.       The following wards of the City of Wolverhampton—
Bushbury North;       Bushbury South and Low Hill;       Fallings Park;
Heath Town;       Wednesfield North;       Wednesfield South.
Wolverhampton South East       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Walsall—       Bentley and Darlaston
North;       Darlaston South;       Willenhall South.       The following
wards of the City of Wolverhampton—       Bilston East;       Bilston North;
East Park;       Ettingshall;       Spring Vale.         Wolverhampton West
(borough constituency)         The following wards of the City of
Wolverhampton—       Blakenhall;       Graiseley;       Merry Hill;
Oxley;       Park;       Penn;       St. Peter’s;       Tettenhall Regis;
Tettenhall Wightwick.         Worcester       (borough constituency)     The
City of Worcester.     Wyre Forest       (county constituency)     The
District of Wyre Forest.

##### Yorkshire and the Humber region

      Name and designation Composition       Barnsley North       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of
Barnsley—       Central;       Cudworth;       Darton East;       Darton West;
Monk Bretton;       North East;       Old Town;       Royston;       St.
Helens.         Barnsley South       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Barnsley—       Darfield;
Dearne North;       Dearne South;       Hoyland Milton;       Kingstone;
Rockingham;       Stairfoot;       Wombwell;       Worsbrough.
Beverley and Holderness       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the District of East Riding of Yorkshire—       Beverley Rural;
Mid Holderness;       Minster and Woodmansey;       St. Mary’s;       South
East Holderness;       South West Holderness.         Bradford East
(borough constituency)         In the City of Bradford—       (a) the Bolton
and Undercliffe ward;       (b) in the Bowling and Barkerend ward, polling
districts 5A, 5B, 5C, 5D, 5E, 5G and 5H ;       (c) the Bradford Moor ward;
(d) the Eccleshill ward;       (e) the Idle and Thackley ward;       (f) the
Little Horton ward.         Bradford South       (borough constituency)
In the City of Bradford—       (a) in the Bowling and Barkerend ward, polling
district 5F ;       (b) the Great Horton ward;       (c) the Queensbury ward;
(d) the Royds ward;       (e) the Tong ward;       (f) the Wibsey ward;
(g) the Wyke ward.         Bradford West       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the City of Bradford—       City;       Clayton and
Fairweather Green;       Heaton;       Manningham;       Thornton and
Allerton;       Toller.         Bridlington and The Wolds       (county
constituency)         In the District of East Riding of Yorkshire—       (a)
the Bridlington Central and Old Town ward;       (b) the Bridlington North
ward;       (c) the Bridlington South ward;       (d) the Driffield and Rural
ward;       (e) the East Wolds and Coastal ward;       (f) the North
Holderness ward;       (g) in the Wolds Weighton ward—       (i) polling
districts ZC, ZD, ZG, ZH, ZI, ZJ, ZK, ZL, ZM, ZN, ZO, ZP, ZR, ZS, ZT and ZW,
(ii) polling district ZX except for the area of Stamford Bridge Parish, and
(iii) polling districts ZZA, ZZB and ZZC .         Brigg and Immingham
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of North East
Lincolnshire—       Humberston and New Waltham;       Immingham;
Scartho;       Waltham;       Wolds.       The following wards of the District
of North Lincolnshire—       Barton;       Brigg and Wolds;       Broughton
and Appleby;       Ferry.         Calder Valley       (county constituency)
In the Metropolitan Borough of Calderdale—       (a) the Brighouse ward;
(b) the Calder ward;       (c) the Elland ward;       (d) the Greetland and
Stainland ward;       (e) the Hipperholme and Lightcliffe ward;       (f) the
Luddendenfoot ward;       (g) the Rastrick ward;       (h) in the Ryburn ward,
polling districts MA, ME, MF, MG, MH, MJ and MK ;       (i) the Todmorden
ward.         Colne Valley       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the Borough of Kirklees—       Colne Valley;       Golcar;
Holme Valley North;       Holme Valley South;       Lindley.         Dewsbury
and Batley       (county constituency)         In the Borough of Kirklees—
(a) the Batley East ward;       (b) the Batley West ward;       (c) the
Dewsbury East ward;       (d) the Dewsbury South ward;       (e) the Dewsbury
West ward;       (f) in the Kirkburton ward, polling districts KB04, KB07A,
KB07B and KB10 .         Doncaster Central       (county constituency)
The following wards of the City of Doncaster—       Armthorpe;       Balby
South;       Bessacarr;       Edenthorpe & Kirk Sandall;       Hexthorpe &
Balby North;       Tickhill & Wadworth;       Town;       Wheatley Hills &
Intake.         Doncaster East and the Isle of Axholme       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Doncaster—
Finningley;       Hatfield;       Rossington & Bawtry;       Thorne &
Moorends.       The following wards of the District of North Lincolnshire—
Axholme Central;       Axholme North;       Axholme South.         Doncaster
North       (county constituency)         The following wards of the City of
Doncaster—       Adwick le Street & Carcroft;       Bentley;       Mexborough;
Norton & Askern;       Roman Ridge;       Sprotbrough;       Stainforth &
Barnby Dun.         Goole and Pocklington       (county constituency)
In the District of East Riding of Yorkshire—       (a) the Dale ward;
(b) the Goole North ward;       (c) the Goole South ward;       (d) the Howden
ward;       (e) the Howdenshire ward;       (f) the Pocklington Provincial
ward;       (g) the Snaith, Airmyn, Rawcliffe and Marshland ward;       (h)
the South Hunsley ward;       (i) in the Wolds Weighton ward—       (i)
polling districts ZA, ZB, ZE, ZF, ZQ, ZU and ZV;       (ii) in polling
district ZX, the Stamford Bridge Parish;       (iii) polling districts ZY and
ZZ .         Great Grimsby and Cleethorpes       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the Borough of North East Lincolnshire—       Croft
Baker;       East Marsh;       Freshney;       Haverstoe;       Heneage;
Park;       Sidney Sussex;       South;       West Marsh;       Yarborough.
Halifax       (borough constituency)         In the Metropolitan Borough of
Calderdale—       (a) the Illingworth and Mixenden ward;       (b) the
Northowram and Shelf ward;       (c) the Ovenden ward;       (d) the Park
ward;       (e) in the Ryburn ward, polling districts MB, MC and MD ;
(f) the Skircoat ward;       (g) the Sowerby Bridge ward;       (h) the Town
ward;       (i) the Warley ward.         Harrogate and Knaresborough
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of Harrogate—
Claro;       Harrogate Bilton Grange;       Harrogate Bilton Woodfield;
Harrogate Central;       Harrogate Coppice Valley;       Harrogate Duchy;
Harrogate Fairfax;       Harrogate Harlow;       Harrogate High Harrogate;
Harrogate Hookstone;       Harrogate Kingsley;       Harrogate New Park;
Harrogate Oatlands;       Harrogate Old Bilton;       Harrogate Pannal;
Harrogate St. Georges;       Harrogate Saltergate;       Harrogate Starbeck;
Harrogate Stray;       Harrogate Valley Gardens;       Killinghall &
Hampsthwaite;       Knaresborough Aspin & Calcutt;       Knaresborough Castle;
Knaresborough Eastfield;       Knaresborough Scriven Park.
Huddersfield       (borough constituency)         In the Borough of Kirklees—
(a) the Almondbury ward;       (b) the Ashbrow ward;       (c) the Crosland
Moor and Netherton ward;       (d) in the Dalton ward, polling districts DA01,
DA02, DA03, DA04, DA05, DA07 and DA08 ;       (e) the Greenhead ward;
(f) the Newsome ward.         Keighley and Ilkley       (county constituency)
The following wards of the City of Bradford—       Craven;       Ilkley;
Keighley Central;       Keighley East;       Keighley West;       Worth
Valley.         Kingston upon Hull East       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the City of Kingston upon Hull—       Drypool;
Holderness;       Ings;       Longhill & Bilton Grange;       Marfleet;
North Carr;       Southcoates;       Sutton.         Kingston upon Hull North
and Cottingham       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
District of East Riding of Yorkshire—       Cottingham North;       Cottingham
South.       The following wards of the City of Kingston upon Hull—
Avenue;       Beverley & Newland;       Bricknell;       Central;
Kingswood;       Orchard Park;       University;       West Carr.
Kingston upon Hull West and Haltemprice       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the District of East Riding of Yorkshire—       Hessle;
Tranby;       Willerby and Kirk Ella.       The following wards of the City of
Kingston upon Hull—       Boothferry;       Derringham;       Newington &
Gipsyville;       Pickering;       St. Andrew’s & Docklands.         Leeds
Central and Headingley       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the City of Leeds—       Headingley & Hyde Park;       Kirkstall;
Little London & Woodhouse;       Weetwood.         Leeds East       (county
constituency)         In the City of Leeds—       (a) the Cross Gates &
Whinmoor ward;       (b) the Garforth & Swillington ward;       (c) the Gipton
& Harehills ward;       (d) the Killingbeck & Seacroft ward;       (e) in the
Temple Newsam ward, polling districts TNB, TNC-X, TNC-Y, TNF and TNG .
Leeds North East       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the City of Leeds—       Alwoodley;       Chapel Allerton;       Moortown;
Roundhay.         Leeds North West       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Leeds—       Adel & Wharfedale;       Guiseley
& Rawdon;       Horsforth;       Otley & Yeadon.         Leeds South
(borough constituency)         In the City of Leeds—       (a) the Beeston &
Holbeck ward;       (b) the Burmantofts & Richmond Hill ward;       (c) the
Hunslet & Riverside ward;       (d) the Middleton Park ward;       (e) in the
Temple Newsam ward, polling districts TNA, TND, TNE, TNH, TNI, TNJ, TNK and
TNL .         Leeds South West and Morley       (borough constituency)
The following wards of the City of Leeds—       Ardsley & Robin Hood;
Farnley & Wortley;       Morley North;       Morley South.         Leeds West
and Pudsey       (borough constituency)         The following wards of the
City of Leeds—       Armley;       Bramley & Stanningley;       Calverley &
Farsley;       Pudsey.         Normanton and Hemsworth       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Wakefield—
Ackworth, North Elmsall and Upton;       Crofton, Ryhill and Walton;
Featherstone;       Hemsworth;       Normanton;       South Elmsall and South
Kirkby.         Ossett and Denby Dale       (county constituency)         In
the Borough of Kirklees—       (a) the Denby Dale ward;       (b) in the
Kirkburton ward, polling districts KB01, KB02, KB03A, KB03B, KB05, KB06, KB08
and KB09 .       The following wards of the City of Wakefield—       Horbury
and South Ossett;       Ossett;       Wakefield Rural;       Wakefield South.
Penistone and Stocksbridge       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Barnsley—       Dodworth;       Penistone
East;       Penistone West.       The following wards of the City of
Sheffield—       East Ecclesfield;       Stocksbridge & Upper Don;       West
Ecclesfield.         Pontefract, Castleford and Knottingley       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Wakefield—
Airedale and Ferry Fryston;       Altofts and Whitwood;       Castleford
Central and Glasshoughton;       Knottingley;       Pontefract North;
Pontefract South.         Rawmarsh and Conisbrough       (county constituency)
The following wards of the City of Doncaster—       Conisbrough;
Edlington & Warmsworth.       The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough
of Rotherham—       Bramley & Ravenfield;       Hoober;       Kilnhurst &
Swinton East;       Rawmarsh East;       Rawmarsh West;       Swinton
Rockingham;       Wath.         Richmond and Northallerton       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the District of Hambleton—
Appleton Wiske & Smeatons;       Great Ayton;       Hutton Rudby;
Morton-on-Swale;       Northallerton North & Brompton;       Northallerton
South;       Osmotherley & Swainby;       Romanby;       Stokesley.       The
District of Richmondshire.         Rother Valley       (county constituency)
The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of Rotherham—       Anston &
Woodsetts;       Aston & Todwick;       Aughton & Swallownest;
Dinnington;       Hellaby & Maltby West;       Maltby East;       Sitwell;
Thurcroft & Wickersley South;       Wales.         Rotherham       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the Metropolitan Borough of
Rotherham—       Boston Castle;       Brinsworth;       Dalton & Thrybergh;
Greasbrough;       Keppel;       Rother Vale;       Rotherham East;
Rotherham West;       Wickersley North.         Scarborough and Whitby
(county constituency)         The following wards of the Borough of
Scarborough—       Burniston & Cloughton;       Castle;       Cayton;
Danby & Mulgrave;       Derwent Valley & Moor;       Eastfield;       Esk
Valley;       Falsgrave & Stepney;       Fylingdales & Ravenscar;
Mayfield;       Newby;       Northstead;       Scalby;       Seamer;
Streonshalh;       Weaponness & Ramshill;       Whitby West Cliff;
Woodlands.         Scunthorpe       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the District of North Lincolnshire—       Ashby;
Bottesford;       Brumby;       Burringham and Gunness;       Burton upon
Stather and Winterton;       Crosby and Park;       Frodingham;       Kingsway
with Lincoln Gardens;       Ridge;       Town.         Selby       (county
constituency)         In the City of Leeds, the Kippax & Methley ward.
The following wards of the District of Selby—       Barlby Village;
Brayton;       Byram & Brotherton;       Camblesforth & Carlton;       Cawood
& Wistow;       Derwent;       Eggborough;       Escrick;       Hambleton;
Monk Fryston;       Riccall;       Selby East;       Selby West;
Sherburn in Elmet;       South Milford;       Thorpe Willoughby;
Whitley.         Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Sheffield—
Burngreave;       Firth Park;       Hillsborough;       Shiregreen &
Brightside;       Southey.         Sheffield Central       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the City of Sheffield—
Broomhill & Sharrow Vale;       City;       Nether Edge & Sharrow;
Walkley.         Sheffield Hallam       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the City of Sheffield—       Crookes & Crosspool;
Dore & Totley;       Ecclesall;       Fulwood;       Stannington.
Sheffield Heeley       (borough constituency)         In the City of
Sheffield—       (a) the Beauchief & Greenhill ward;       (b) the Gleadless
Valley ward;       (c) the Graves Park ward;       (d) the Manor Castle ward;
(e) the Park & Arbourthorne ward;       (f) in the Richmond ward, polling
districts UB, UC and UE .         Sheffield South East       (borough
constituency)         In the City of Sheffield—       (a) the Beighton ward;
(b) the Birley ward;       (c) the Darnall ward;       (d) the Mosborough
ward;       (e) in the Richmond ward, polling districts UA, UD, UF, UG and UH
;       (f) the Woodhouse ward.         Shipley       (county constituency)
The following wards of the City of Bradford—       Baildon;       Bingley;
Bingley Rural;       Shipley;       Wharfedale;       Windhill and Wrose.
Skipton and Ripon       (county constituency)         The District of Craven.
The following wards of the Borough of Harrogate—       Fountains & Ripley;
Masham & Kirkby Malzeard;       Nidd Valley;       Pateley Bridge & Nidderdale
Moors;       Ripon Minster;       Ripon Moorside;       Ripon Spa;       Ripon
Ure Bank;       Washburn;       Wathvale.         Spen Valley       (borough
constituency)         In the Borough of Kirklees—       (a) the Birstall and
Birkenshaw ward;       (b) the Cleckheaton ward;       (c) in the Dalton ward,
polling district DA06 ;       (d) the Heckmondwike ward;       (e) the
Liversedge and Gomersal ward;       (f) the Mirfield ward.         Thirsk and
Malton       (county constituency)         The following wards of the District
of Hambleton—       Bagby & Thorntons;       Bedale;       Sowerby &
Topcliffe;       Tanfield;       Thirsk.       The District of Ryedale.
The following wards of the Borough of Scarborough—       Filey;
Hunmanby.         Wakefield and Rothwell       (borough constituency)
In the City of Leeds, the Rothwell ward.       The following wards of the City
of Wakefield—       Stanley and Outwood East;       Wakefield East;
Wakefield North;       Wakefield West;       Wrenthorpe and Outwood West.
Wetherby and Easingwold       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the District of Hambleton—       Easingwold;       Huby;
Raskelf & White Horse.       The following wards of the Borough of Harrogate—
Bishop Monkton & Newby;       Boroughbridge;       Marston Moor;
Ouseburn;       Spofforth with Lower Wharfedale.       The following wards of
the City of Leeds—       Harewood;       Wetherby.       The following wards
of the District of Selby—       Appleton Roebuck & Church Fenton;
Tadcaster.         York Central       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the District of York—       Acomb;       Clifton;
Fishergate;       Guildhall;       Heworth;       Holgate;       Hull Road;
Micklegate;       Westfield.         York Outer       (county constituency)
The following wards of the District of York—       Bishopthorpe;
Copmanthorpe;       Dringhouses & Woodthorpe;       Fulford & Heslington;
Haxby & Wigginton;       Heworth Without;       Huntington & New Earswick;
Osbaldwick & Derwent;       Rawcliffe & Clifton Without;       Rural West
York;       Strensall;       Wheldrake.

Name, designation and composition of constituencies in Northern Ireland

Article 3

Name and designation Composition (1) A reference to a particular 2008
constituency is a reference to the constituency of that name described in
Schedule 1 to the Parliamentary Constituencies (Northern Ireland) Order 2008
as it had effect immediately before the coming into force of this Order. (2)
The “Ballyward split line” is a line starting on the point on the eastern
boundary of Ballyward ward which is in the centre of the junction of Dromara
Road and Grove Road, and then drawn in a south-westerly direction along the
centre of Dromara Road to the western ward boundary. (3) The “Quoile split
line” is a line starting on the point on the southern Quoile ward boundary
which is both in the centre of the bridge by which Belfast Road crosses the
River Quoile and on the northern bank of the River Quoile, and drawn in a
north-easterly direction along the northern bank of the River Quoile to a
point on the western edge of Quoile Bridge; then in a south-easterly direction
along the western edge of the bridge, then to a point at Irish grid reference
system 348809.545 E, 346391.032 N which is on the southern edge of the road of
Quoile Road; then in an easterly direction along the southern edge of the road
of Quoile Road and then the southern edge of the road of Strangford Road to
the ward boundary. (4) The “relevant area” is that part of the Strangford ward
to the south of a line starting at the point on the ward boundary at Irish
grid reference system 350653.122 E, 345872.095 N, and then drawn from that
point to at Irish grid reference system 350646.759 E, 345876.357 N; then in a
north-westerly direction along the property boundary to the northern corner of
that boundary at Irish grid reference system 350628.081 E, 345893.946 N; then
in a south-westerly direction along the property boundary to the western
corner of that property; and then along the northern boundary of the field
which is immediately to the north of the northern boundaries of the
northernmost properties on Saul Acre View and Saul Acre to the ward boundary.
Belfast East (borough constituency) The following wards of Belfast City
Council— Ballymacarrett; Beersbridge; Belmont; Bloomfield; Connswater;
Cregagh; Gilnahirk; Hillfoot; Knock; Merok; Orangefield; Sandown; Shandon;
Stormont; Sydenham; Woodstock. The following wards of Lisburn and Castlereagh
City Council— Ballyhanwood; Carrowreagh; Dundonald; Enler; Graham’s Bridge.
Belfast North (borough constituency) In the area of Antrim and Newtownabbey
Borough Council— (a) the part of the Abbey ward to the south of the northern
boundary of the 2008 Belfast North constituency ; (b) the Ballyhenry ward; (c)
the Carnmoney Hill ward; (d) the Collinbridge ward; (e) the Glebe ward; (f)
the Glengormley ward; (g) the Hightown ward; (h) the O’Neill ward; (i) the
Rathcoole ward; (j) the Valley ward; (k) the Whitehouse ward. The following
wards of Belfast City Council— Ardoyne; Ballysillan; Bellevue; Cavehill;
Chichester Park; Cliftonville; Duncairn; Forth River; Fortwilliam; Innisfayle;
Legoniel; New Lodge; Water Works. Belfast South and Mid Down (borough
constituency) The following wards of Belfast City Council— Belvoir;
Blackstaff; Central; Finaghy; Malone; Musgrave; Ormeau; Ravenhill; Rosetta;
Stranmillis; Upper Malone; Windsor. The following wards of the Lisburn and
Castlereagh City Council— Beechill; Cairnshill; Carryduff East; Carryduff
West; Drumbo; Galwally; Knockbracken; Moneyreagh; Newtownbreda. In the area of
Newry, Mourne and Down District Council, the Saintfield ward. Belfast West
(borough constituency) The following wards of Belfast City Council—
Andersonstown; Ballygomartin; Ballymurphy; Beechmount; Clonard; Collin Glen;
Dunmurry; Falls; Falls Park; Ladybrook; Lagmore; Poleglass; Shankill; Shaw’s
Road; Stewartstown; Turf Lodge; Twinbrook; Woodvale. In the area of Lisburn
and Castlereagh City Council, the Derryaghy ward. East Antrim (county
constituency) In the area of Antrim and Newtownabbey Borough Council— (a) the
part of the Abbey ward to the north of the northern boundary of the 2008
Belfast North constituency ; (b) the Jordanstown ward; (c) the Monkstown ward;
(d) the Rostulla ward. In the area of Causeway Coast and Glens Borough
Council, the Lurigethan ward. The following wards of the Mid and East Antrim
Borough Council— Ballycarry and Glynn; Boneybefore; Burleigh Hill;
Cairncastle; Carnlough and Glenarm; Castle; Craigyhill; Curran and Inver;
Gardenmore; Glenravel; Glenwhirry; Gortalee; Greenisland; Islandmagee;
Kilroot; Kilwaughter; Love Lane; Slemish; Sunnylands; The Maidens; Victoria;
Whitehead South; Woodburn. East Londonderry (county constituency) The
following wards of Causeway Coast and Glens Borough Council— Aghadowey;
Altahullion; Atlantic; Ballykelly; Castlerock; Churchland; Coolessan;
Drumsurn; Dundooan; Dungiven; Feeny; Garvagh; Greysteel; Greystone; Hopefield;
Kilrea; Macosquin; Magilligan; Mountsandel; Portrush and Dunluce; Portstewart;
Quarry; Roeside; University; Waterside; Windy Hall. The following wards of
Derry City and Strabane District Council— Claudy; Eglinton; Park. Fermanagh
and South Tyrone (county constituency) In the area of Armagh City, Banbridge
and Craigavon Borough Council, the Blackwatertown ward. The following wards of
Fermanagh and Omagh District Council— Ballinamallard; Belcoo and Garrison;
Belleek and Boa; Boho, Cleenish and Letterbreen; Brookeborough; Castlecoole;
Derrygonnelly; Derrylin; Donagh; Ederney and Kesh; Erne; Florence Court and
Kinawley; Irvinestown; Lisbellaw; Lisnarrick; Lisnaskea; Maguiresbridge;
Newtownbutler; Portora; Rosslea; Rossory; Tempo. In the area of Mid Ulster
District Council— (a) the Augher and Clogher ward; (b) the Aughnacloy ward;
(c) the Ballygawley ward; (d) the Ballysaggart ward; (e) the Caledon ward; (f)
the part of the Castlecaulfield ward lies to the south of the northern
boundary of the 2008 Fermanagh and South Tyrone constituency ; (g) the
Fivemiletown ward; (h) the Killymeal ward; (i) the Moy ward; (j) the Moygashel
ward; (k) the Mullaghmore ward. Foyle (county constituency) The following
wards of Derry City and Strabane District Council— Ballymagroarty; Brandywell;
Carn Hill; Caw; City Walls; Clondermot; Creggan; Creggan South; Culmore;
Drumahoe; Ebrington; Enagh; Foyle Springs; Galliagh; Kilfennan; Lisnagelvin;
Madam’s Bank; New Buildings; Northland; Shantallow; Shantallow East; Sheriff’s
Mountain; Skeoge; Springtown; Victoria. Lagan Valley (county constituency) In
the area of Armagh City, Banbridge and Craigavon Borough Council— (a) the
Aghagallon ward; (b) the part of the Donaghcloney ward to the east of the
western boundary of the 2008 Lagan Valley constituency ; (c) the Dromore ward;
(d) the part of the Gransha ward to the north of the southern boundary of the
2008 Lagan Valley constituency ; (e) the Magheralin ward; (f) the Quilly ward.
The following wards of Lisburn and Castlereagh City Council— Ballinderry;
Ballymacash; Ballymacbrennan; Ballymacoss; Blaris; Dromara; Harmony Hill;
Hilden; Hillhall; Hillsborough; Knockmore; Lagan; Lagan Valley; Lambeg;
Lisnagarvey; Maghaberry; Magheralave; Maze; Moira; Old Warren; Ravernet;
Wallace Park; White Mountain. Mid Ulster (county constituency) In the area of
Armagh City, Banbridge and Craigavon Borough Council— (a) the part of the
Loughgall ward to the north of the northern boundary of the 2008 Newry and
Armagh constituency ; (b) the part of The Birches ward to the west of the
western boundary of the 2008 Upper Bann constituency . In the area of Mid
Ulster District Council— (a) the Ardboe ward; (b) the Ballymaguigan ward (c)
the Bellaghy ward; (d) the part of the Castlecaulfield ward to the   north
of the northern boundary of the 2008 Fermanagh and South Tyrone constituency ;
(e) the Castledawson ward; (f) the Coagh ward; (g) the Coalisland North ward;
(h) the Coalisland South ward; (i) the Cookstown East ward; (j) the Cookstown
South ward; (k) the Cookstown West ward; (l) the Coolshinny ward; (m) the
Donaghmore ward; (n) the Draperstown ward; (o) the Glebe ward; (p) the
Killyman ward; (q) the Lissan ward; (r) the Loughry ward; (s) the Lower
Glenshane ward; (t) the Maghera ward; (u) the Oaklands ward; (v) the
Stewartstown ward; (w) the Swatragh ward; (x) the Tamlaght O’Crilly ward; (y)
The Loup ward; (z) the Tobermore ward; (aa) the Town Parks East ward; (bb) the
Valley ward; (cc) the Washing Bay ward. Newry and Armagh (county constituency)
The following wards of Armagh City, Banbridge and Craigavon Borough Council—
Cathedral; Demesne; Hamiltonsbawn; Keady; Markethill; Navan; Richhill;
Seagahan; Tandragee; The Mall. The following wards of Newry, Mourne and Down
District Council— Abbey; Ballybot; Bessbrook; Camlough; Crossmaglen; Damolly;
Drumalane; Fathom; Forkhill; Mullaghbane; Newtownhamilton; St. Patrick’s;
Whitecross. North Antrim (county constituency) The following wards of Causeway
Coast and Glens Borough Council— Ballycastle; Ballymoney East; Ballymoney
North; Ballymoney South; Clogh Mills; Dervock; Dunloy; Giant’s Causeway;
Kinbane; Loughguile and Stranocum; Rasharkin; Route; Torr Head and Rathlin.
The following wards of Mid and East Antrim Borough Council— Academy; Ahoghill;
Ardeevin; Ballee and Harryville; Ballykeel; Braidwater; Broughshane; Castle
Demesne; Cullybackey; Fair Green; Galgorm; Grange; Kells; Kirkinriola; Maine;
Park; Portglenone. North Down (county constituency) In the area of Ards and
North Down Borough Council— (a) the Ballycrochan ward; (b) the Balygrainey
ward; (c) the Ballyholme ward; (d) the Ballymagee ward; (e) the Bloomfield
ward; (f) the Broadway ward; (g) the Bryansburn ward; (h) the part of the
Carrowdore ward to the north of the southern boundary of the 2008 North Down
constituency ; (i) the Castle ward; (j) the Clandeboye ward; (k) the Cultra
ward; (l) the Donaghadee ward; (m) the Groomsport ward; (n) the Harbour ward;
(o) the Helen’s Bay ward; (p) the Holywood ward; (q) the Kilcooley ward; (r)
the part of the Loughries ward to the east of the southern boundary of the
2008 North Down constituency ; (s) the Loughview ward; (t) the Rathgael ward;
(u) the Rathmore ward; (v) the Silverbirch ward; (w) the Silverstream ward;
(x) the Warren ward. In the area of Belfast City Council, the Garnerville
ward. South Antrim (county constituency) The following wards of Antrim and
Newtownabbey Borough Council— Aldergrove; Antrim Centre; Ballyclare East;
Ballyclare West; Ballyduff; Ballynure; Ballyrobert; Burnthill; Carnmoney;
Clady; Cranfield; Crumlin; Doagh; Fairview; Fountain Hill; Greystone; Mallusk;
Mossley; Parkgate; Randalstown; Shilvodan; Springfarm; Steeple; Stiles;
Templepatrick; Toome. The following wards of Lisburn and Castlereagh City
Council— Glenavy; Stonyford. South Down (county constituency) In the area of
Armagh City, Banbridge and Craigavon Borough Council— (a) the part of the
Banbridge East ward to the east of the eastern boundary of the 2008 Upper Bann
constituency ; (b) the part of the Gransha ward to the south of the southern
boundary of the 2008 Lagan Valley constituency ; (c) the Loughbrickland ward;
(d) the Rathfriland ward. In the area of Newry, Mourne and Down District
Council— (a) the Annalong ward; (b) the Ballydugan ward; (c) the part of the
Ballyward ward to the south of the Ballyward split line ; (d) the Binnian
ward; (e) the Burren ward; (f) the Castlewellan ward; (g) the Cathedral ward;
(h) the Derryleckagh ward; (i) the Donard ward; (j) the Dundrum ward; (k) the
Hilltown ward; (l) the Kilkeel ward; (m) the Knocknashinna ward; (n) the
Lecale ward; (o) the Lisnacree ward; (p) the Mayobridge ward; (q) the Murlough
ward; (r) the part of the Quoile ward to the south of the Quoile split line ;
(s) the Rostrevor ward; (t) in the Strangford ward, the relevant area ; (u)
the Tollymore ward; (v) the Warrenpoint ward. Strangford (county constituency)
In the area of Ards and North Down Borough Council— (a) the Ballygowan ward;
(b) the Ballywalter ward; (c) the part of the Carrowdore ward to the south of
the southern boundary of the 2008 North Down constituency ; (d) the Comber
North ward; (e) the Comber South ward; (f) the Comber West ward; (g) the
Conway Square ward; (h) the Cronstown ward; (i) the Glen ward; (j) the
Gregstown ward; (k) the Killinchy ward; (l) the Kircubbin ward; (m) the part
of the Loughries ward to the west of the southern boundary of the 2008 North
Down constituency ; (n) the Movilla ward; (o) the Portaferry ward; (p) the
Portavogie ward; (q) the Scrabo ward; (r) the West Winds ward. In the area of
Newry, Mourne and Down District Council— (a) the Ballynahinch ward; (b) the
part of the Ballyward ward to the north of the Ballyward split line ; (c) the
Crossgar and Killyleagh ward; (d) the Derryboy ward; (e) the Drumaness ward;
(f) the Kilmore ward; (g) the part of the Quoile ward to the north of the
Quoile split line ; (h) the Strangford ward, except for the relevant area .
Upper Bann (county constituency) In the area of Armagh City, Banbridge and
Craigavon Borough Council— (a) the Ballybay ward; (b) the part of the
Banbridge East ward to the west of the eastern boundary of the 2008 Upper Bann
constituency ; (c) the Banbridge North ward; (d) the Banbridge South ward; (e)
the Banbridge West ward; (f) the Bleary ward; (g) the Brownlow ward; (h) the
Corcrain ward; (i) the Craigavon Centre ward; (j) the Derrytrasna ward; (k)
the part of the Donaghcloney ward to the west of the western boundary of the
2008 Lagan Valley constituency ; (l) the Gilford ward; (m) the Kernan ward;
(n) the Killycomain ward; (o) the Knocknashane ward; (p) the Lough Road ward;
(q) the part of the Loughgall ward to the south of the northern boundary of
the 2008 Newry and Armagh constituency ; (r) the Mahon ward; (s) the
Mourneview ward; (t) the Parklake ward; (u) the Shankill ward; (v) the part of
The Birches ward to the east of the western boundary of the 2008 Upper Bann
constituency ; (w) the Waringstown ward. West Tyrone (county constituency) The
following wards of Derry City and Strabane District Council— Artigarvan;
Ballycolman; Castlederg; Dunnamanagh; Finn; Glenderg; Glenelly Valley;
Newtownstewart; Sion Mills; Slievekirk; Strabane North; Strabane West. The
following wards of Fermanagh and Omagh District Council— Beragh; Camowen;
Coolnagard; Dergmoney; Dromore; Drumnakilly; Drumquin; Fairy Water; Fintona;
Gortin; Gortrush; Killyclogher; Newtownsaville; Owenkillew; Sixmilecross;
Strule; Termon; Trillick. In the area of Mid Ulster District Council, the
Pomeroy ward.

  Name, designation and composition of constituencies in Scotland

Article 4

      Name and designation Composition       (1)       The “Midstocket area”
is that part of ward 7 (Midstocket/Rosemount) to the south of a line starting
from the point on the ward boundary in the centre of the junction between
Argyll Place, Beechgrove Terrace, Rosemount Place and Westfield Road, and then
drawn in an easterly direction along the centre of Rosemount Place to a point
in the centre of the junction of Rosemount Place and Esslemont Avenue; then in
a southerly direction along the centre of Esslemont Avenue to a point in the
centre of the junction of Esslemont Avenue, Carden Place, Rose Street and
Skene Street; then in an easterly direction along the centre of Skene Street
to a point in the centre of the junction of Skene Street, Lower Denburn and
Woolmanhill; then in an easterly then northerly direction along the centre of
Woolmanhill to the ward boundary.             (2)       The “Central Buchan
split line” is a line which begins on the ward 4 (Central Buchan) boundary at
OS grid reference NJ 85931 55275 and then drawn in an easterly direction along
the northern boundary of New Deer polling district to Ordnance Survey national
grid reference NJ 90338 53168 on the A950 road; then in a southerly direction
along the centre of the A950 road to the eastern boundary of the Deer
Community Council area; and then in a southerly direction along that eastern
boundary to the ward boundary.             (3)       The “Airdrie area” is
that part of ward 9 (Airdrie Central) to the west of a line starting from the
point on the ward boundary in the centre of the footbridge over the railway
line to the east of Coatdyke Station, and then drawn in a south-easterly
direction along the centre of that railway line to the centre of the railway
bridge over Alexander Street; and then in a south-westerly direction along the
centre of Alexander Street and then Deedes Street to the ward boundary.
(4)       The “Mossend area” is that part of ward 16 (Mossend and Holytown):
(a) to the east of the railway line between Whifflet and Motherwell stations;
and (b) to the south of the railway line between Bellshill and Holytown
stations.             (5)       The “Motherwell North split line” is a line
starting from the most southerly point of the northern boundary of ward 18
(Motherwell North) which is on the railway line between Holytown and Carfin
stations and then drawn in an easterly direction along the centre of that
railway line, through Carfin station to the ward boundary.             (6)
“Murdostoun area A” is that part of ward 20 (Murdostoun) to the west of a line
starting from the point which is the eastern most point of the ward boundary
on the centre of Omoa Road and then drawn in a southerly direction following
the centre of the Tillan Burn to the ward boundary.             (7)
“Murdostoun area B” is that part of ward 20 (Murdostoun) surrounded by (a) a
line starting from the point which is the eastern most point of the western
ward boundary on the centre of South Calder Water and then drawn in a
northerly then easterly direction following the centre of South Calder Water
to a point which is in the centre of the A73; then in a southerly direction
along the centre of the A73 to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS
81587 57255; then to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 81523 57217;
then to the field boundary at Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 81610
57067; then in a southerly direction along the eastern field boundaries to
Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 81601 56982 which is in the centre
of a stream; then in a southerly direction along the centre of that stream to
Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 81586 56796 on the unnamed road;
then in an easterly direction along the centre of that road to a point in the
centre of the junction of that unnamed road and Murdostoun View; then in a
south-easterly direction along the centre of Murdostoun View to a point
opposite Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 81700 56730; then in a
southerly direction to that grid reference and then to Ordnance Survey
national grid reference NS 81696 56693; then to Ordnance Survey national grid
reference NS 81718 56689 which is on the boundary of the Motherwell and Wishaw
constituency as it was immediately before the coming into force of this Order;
then in southerly direction along that constituency boundary to Ordnance
Survey national grid reference NS 81678 56155; then to Ordnance Survey
national grid reference NS 81678 56154; then to Ordnance Survey national grid
reference NS 81646 56143 on the eastern boundary of a field; then in a
southerly direction along that eastern field boundary to the southwest corner
of that field boundary; then to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS
81493 55638 which is in the centre of the footpath that runs between Hallside
Gardens and Cambusnethan Street; then in a south-easterly direction along the
centre of that footpath to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 81513
55604 in the centre of Cambusnethan Street; then in a western direction along
the centre of Cambusnethan Street to a point in the centre of the junction of
that Street and Woodhall Road; then in a south easterly direction along the
centre of Woodhall Road to the boundary of the Motherwell and Wishaw
constituency as it was immediately before the coming into force of this Order;
and then in a south-easterly and then westerly direction along that
constituency boundary to the ward boundary; and (b) the ward boundary.
(8)       The “Clackmannanshire East split line” is a line starting from the
most southerly point on the ward 5 (Clackmannanshire East) boundary which is
on the centre of the B909, and then drawn in a southerly direction to the
centre of the roundabout which is the junction of the B909 and the A907; then
in an easterly then southerly direction along the centre of the A907 to the
point on the ward boundary which is in the centre of the roundabout which is
the junction of the A907 and A977.             (9)       The “Strathtay split
line” is a line starting from the point on the ward 5 (Strathtay) boundary
that is also the north west corner of the Almondbank polling district
boundary, and then drawn in an easterly and then southerly direction along the
northern and then eastern boundaries of that polling district to a point on
the eastern boundary which is in the centre of the River Almond; and then in
an easterly direction along the centre of the River Almond to the ward
boundary.             (10)       The “East End split line” is a line starting
from the point on the northern boundary of ward 7 (East End) which is in the
centre of the B961 Douglas Road and then drawn in a southerly direction along
the centre of that Road to the point in the centre of the roundabout which is
the junction of that Road, the A972, the A92 and Arbroath Road; and then drawn
in an easterly direction from that point along the centre of the Arbroath Road
to the ward boundary.             (11)       The “Fort William split line” is
a line starting from the point on the ward 21 (Fort William and Ardnamurchan)
boundary which is the northern most point of the boundary of the area of the
Nether Lochaber Community Council, and then drawn in an easterly direction
along that area boundary to the point where that boundary meets the northern
boundary of the area of Kinlochleven Community Council; and then in an
easterly direction along that northern boundary to the ward boundary.
(12)       The “Cumnock area” is that part of ward 8 (Cumnock and New Cumnock)
to the north of a line starting at the southernmost point of the western ward
boundary which is on Lugar Water and then drawn in a southerly then easterly
direction along the centre of Lugar Water to the point where Lugar Water meets
Dippol Burn, and then in an easterly direction from that point along the
centre of Dippol Burn to the ward boundary.             (13)       The “Ayr
North area” is that part of ward 3 (Ayr North) to the north of a line starting
at a point on the western ward boundary opposite the centre of the junction of
Promenade and Bellrock Road and then drawn in an easterly direction to the
centre of that junction; then in an easterly direction along the centre of
Bellrock Road to the point where Bellrock Road splits into two roads; then in
an easterly direction over the railway line and along the centre of the
eastern Bellrock Road to a point in the centre of the junction of that road,
Oswald Road and Woodfield Road; then in an easterly direction along the centre
of Woodfield Road and then Seaforth Road to the point where Seaforth Road
meets a footpath that runs from west to east between Kings Park to the north
and Whittle Road and Allan Place to the south; then in an easterly direction
along the centre of that footpath to the point where that footpath meets
Lochside Road; and then in a northerly direction along the centre of Lochside
Road to the ward boundary.             (14)       The “Maybole area” is that
part of ward 7 (Maybole, North Carrick and Coylton) to the north and west of a
line starting at the point of the ward boundary which is at the centre of the
roundabout that is the junction of the A70 road, the A77 road and Holmston
Road, and then drawn in an easterly direction along the centre of the A70 road
to a point at the centre of the junction of that road and Upland Road; then in
a northerly direction along the centre of Upland Road to a point at the centre
of the junction of Upland Road and an unnamed road; then in an easterly
direction along the centre of that unnamed road to the next junction; then in
a north easterly direction along the centre of the unnamed road which lies to
the immediate west of the property called Hargold to a point in the centre of
the bridge by which that road crosses the Water of Coyle; and then in a
northerly direction along the centre of the Water of Coyle to the ward
boundary.             (15)       The “Broxburn split line” is a line starting
from Ordnance Survey national grid reference NT 07692 74246 on the boundary of
ward 2 (Broxburn, Uphall and Winchburgh), and then drawn in an easterly and
then northerly direction along the southern boundary of polling district LVL2L
to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NT 09566 74006; and then to
Ordnance Survey national grid reference NT 09606 74010 on the ward boundary.
(16)       The “Tweeddale split line” is a line starting at Ordnance Survey
national grid reference NT 37151 43991 and drawn along the western boundary of
the Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk constituency as it existed immediately
before the coming into force of this Order to Ordnance Survey national grid
reference NT 37972 32768.             (17)       The “Wester Ross split line”
is a line starting at Ordnance Survey national grid reference NG 86736 85437
on the ward 5 (Wester Ross Strathpeffer and Lochalsh) boundary, and then drawn
in a south-easterly direction along the boundary of the area of the Wester
Loch Ewe Community Council to a point where that boundary meets the boundary
of the area of the Torridon and Kinlochewe Community Council; then in an
easterly then southerly then westerly direction along that boundary to the
point where it meets the boundary of the area of the Lochcarron Community
Council; then in an easterly direction along that boundary to the point where
it meets the boundary of the Dornie and District Community Council; and then
in a southerly and then easterly direction along that boundary to the ward
boundary.             (18)       The “Aird split line” is a line starting at
Ordnance Survey national grid reference NT 12889 89590 on the ward 12 (Aird
and Loch Ness) ward boundary, and then drawn in a southerly direction along
the boundary of the area of the Strathglass Community Council to the point
where that boundary meets the boundary of the area of the Kiltarlity Community
Council; then in a north-easterly then south-easterly direction along that
boundary to the point where it meets the boundary of the area of the Inverness
West Community Council; and then in a north-easterly direction along that
boundary to the ward boundary.             (19)       The “Kilwinning area” is
that part of ward 3 (Kilwinning) to the south of a line starting at the point
in the southern ward boundary which is in the centre of the River Garnock, and
then drawn in a northerly direction along the centre of the River Garnock to
the point in the centre of the bridge by which the A737 road crosses that
River; then in an easterly direction along the centre of the A737 to the
centre of the junction of that road and the B778 Bridgend Lane; then in a
north-easterly direction along the centre of the B778 road to the centre of
the junction of the B778 and Bannoch Road; then in a south-easterly direction
along the centre of Bannoch Road to the centre of the junction of that Road,
the B785 road and Weirston Road; then in an easterly direction along the
centre of the B785 to the junction of that road and the River Lugton road;
then in a northerly then easterly direction along the centre of the River
Lugton road to the point where the road turns to the north for the first time
since the junction of the River Lugton road and the B785 road; then east to a
point in the centre of Lugton Water; then in a northerly direction along the
centre of Lugton Water to the ward boundary.             (20)       The
“Cowdenbeath area” is that part of ward 7 (Cowdenbeath) to the north of a line
starting from the point on the western ward boundary which is in the centre of
the B912 road and then drawn in a north-easterly direction along the centre of
that road to the point in the centre of the junction of that road and the B917
road; then in a southerly direction along the centre of the B917 to the point
which is in the centre of the Lochfitty Burn; and then in a north-easterly
direction along the centre of the Lochfitty Burn to the ward boundary.
(21)       The “Lenzie split line” is a line starting from the point on the
southern boundary of ward 6 (Lenzie and Kirkintilloch South) which is in the
centre of the A806, and then drawn in a northerly direction along the centre
of that road to a point in the centre of the railway line running between
Lenzie and Croy stations; then in a north-easterly direction along the centre
of that railway line to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 68000
72721; and then to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 67932 72828 on
the ward boundary.             (22)       The “Kirkintilloch split line” is a
line starting from the point on the northern boundary of ward 7 (Kirkintilloch
East and North and Twechar) in the centre of the junction of the River Kelvin
and Luggie Water, and then drawn in a southerly direction along the centre of
Luggie Water to the ward boundary.             (23)       The “Lochar area” is
an area bounded: (a) to the north and east by a line starting from Ordnance
Survey national grid reference NX 93891 82817 and then drawn in an easterly
direction along the boundary of the area of the Holywood and Newbridge
Community Council to a point in the centre of The Lake stream; then in an
easterly direction along the centre of that stream until it joins the River
Nith; then in a south-easterly direction along the centre of the River Nith to
the westernmost point on the boundary of the area of the Locharbriggs
Community Council; then in a northern and then eastern direction along that
boundary to the point where it meets the boundary of the area of the Heathhall
Community Council; and then in an easterly, then southerly, then westerly
direction along that boundary to the ward boundary; and (b) to the west and
south by the ward boundary.             (24)       “City Centre area A” is
that part of ward 11 (City Centre): (a) to the south of a line starting at the
point of the eastern ward boundary which is the centre of the junction of
Abbeymount, Easter Road, Montrose Terrace and Regent Road and then drawn in a
westerly direction along the centre of Regent Road, then Waterloo Place then
Princes Street to the point in the centre of the junction of Princes Street,
Lothian Road and Shandwick Place; and (b) to the east of a line starting at
the point in the centre of the junction of Princes Street, Lothian Road and
Shandwick Place and then drawn along the centre of Lothian Road, then Earl
Grey Street, then Tollcross, then Home Street, then Leven Street and then
Bruntsfield Place to the ward boundary.             (25)       “Leith area A”
is that part of ward 13 (Leith) to the south of a line starting from the
eastern most point of the western ward boundary which is in the centre of
Easter Road and then drawn in an easterly direction along the centre of Easter
Road, then Vanburgh Place, then Hermitage Place, the East Hermitage Place,
then Gladstone Place, the Claremont Park, then Seafield Place to a point in
the centre of the junction of Seafield Place and Salamander Street; then in a
south-easterly direction along the centre of Salamander Street, then Seafield
Road to the ward boundary.             (26)       “Leith area B” is that part
of ward 13 (Leith) to the southeast of a line starting at Ordnance Survey
national grid reference NT 28643 75757 and then drawn in a north easterly
direction along the boundary of the area of Leith Harbour and Newhaven
Community Council to the ward boundary.             (27)       The “Southside
split line” is a line starting at the point on the ward 15
(Southside/Newington) boundary at the centre of the junction of Melville Drive
and Argyle Place, and then drawn in an easterly direction along the centre of
Melville Drive to a point which is in the centre of the junction of Melville
Drive, Hope Park Crescent, Hope Park Terrace and Summerhall Crescent; then in
a southerly direction along the centre of Summerhall Crescent, then Summerhall
Place to a point in the centre of the junction of Summerhall Place,
Causewayside and West Preston Street; and then in an easterly direction along
the centre of West Preston Street, then East Preston Street to a point in the
centre of the junction of East Preston Street and Dalkeith Road; then in a
southerly direction along the centre of Dalkeith Road to a point in the centre
of the junction of Dalkeith Road and Holyrood Park Road; then in a northerly
direction along the centre of Holyrood Park Road to the ward boundary.
(28)       The “Musselburgh split line” is a line starting from Ordnance
Survey national grid reference NT 35450 71690 on the ward 1 (Musselburgh)
boundary, and then drawn in a northerly then easterly direction along the
western boundary of polling district ELMN1D to a point on that boundary in the
centre of Pinkie Road opposite the south-eastern corner of the property
boundary of Loretto School, 1 – 7 Linkfield Road, Musselburgh EH21 7RE; then
in a northerly direction to that corner then along the eastern boundary of
that property to the northernmost point of that property boundary; then in a
north-westerly direction to a point in the centre of Linkfield Road opposite
that northernmost point; then in a north-easterly direction along the centre
of Linkfield Road to a point in the centre of the junction of Linkfield Road
and Millhill; then in a westerly direction along the centre of Millhill to a
point in the centre of the junction of Millhill and Balcarres Road; then in a
northerly direction along the centre of Balcarres Road to the northernmost
point of that road; then in a northerly and then westerly direction along the
centre of the track that runs to the east and then north of the recreation
ground which is to the immediate north of the northern most properties of
Goose Green Court and Goose Green Place to Ordnance Survey national grid
reference NT 34628 73534; then to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NT
34652 73548; and then north along the centre of the River Esk to the ward
boundary.             (29)       The “Inverleith split line” is a line
starting from the point on the northern boundary of ward 5 (Inverleith) in the
centre of the roundabout which is the junction of the A902 road, Crewe Road
North, the B9085 road and Crewe Road South, and then drawn in a southerly
direction along the centre of Crewe Road South then Orchard Brae to a point in
the centre of the junction of Orchard Brae, Dean Path and Queensferry Road;
and then in an easterly direction along the centre of Queensferry Road to the
ward boundary.             (30)       “City Centre area B” is that part of
ward 11 (City Centre) to the north of a line starting at the point of the
eastern ward boundary in the centre of the junction of Abbeymount, Easter
Road, Montrose Terrace and Regent Road and then drawn in a westerly direction
along the centre of Regent Road, then Waterloo Place then Princes Street, then
Shandwick Place, then West Maitland Street to a point in the centre of the
junction of West Maitland Street, Torphichen Street and Palmerston Place; and
then in a north-westerly direction along the centre of Palmerston Place and
then Douglas Gardens to the ward boundary.             (31)       The
“Colinton split line” is a line starting at Ordnance Survey national grid
reference NT 24286 66709 on the southern boundary of ward 8
(Colinton/Fairmilehead) and then drawn in a northerly direction along the
eastern boundary of polling district SWP08F and then the eastern boundary of
polling district SWP08C to a point opposite the point on the ward boundary
which is the westernmost point on the property boundary of No. 76 Swan Spring
Avenue, Edinburgh, EH10 6NG; and then in south-easterly direction to that
point on the ward boundary.             (32)       “Morningside area A” is
that part of ward 10 (Morningside) to the north of a line starting on the
point of the northern ward boundary which is in the centre of the bridge over
the Union Canal that forms part of Viewforth; and then in a south-easterly
direction along the centre of Viewforth to a point in the centre of the
junction of Viewforth and Bruntsfield Place; and then in a north-easterly
direction along the centre of Bruntsfield Place to the ward boundary.
(33)       “Morningside area B” is the area in ward 10 (Morningside) which is
bounded (a) to the north west and south west by the ward boundary; and (b) to
the north east and south east by a line starting from a point on the ward
boundary in the centre of the bridge by which Harrison Road crosses the Union
Canal, and then drawn in a southerly direction along the western boundary of
the Edinburgh South constituency, as it existed immediately before the coming
into force of this Order to the ward boundary.             (34)       The
“Pentland split line” is a line starting from Ordnance Survey national grid
reference NT 13366 67868 and then drawn in an easterly direction along the
boundary of the Edinburgh South West constituency as it existed immediately
before the coming into force of this Order to the ward boundary.
(35)       “City Centre area C” is that part of ward 11 (City Centre): (a) to
the south of a line starting from the point on the ward boundary which is in
the centre of the railway track immediately to the north of the southern-most
railway track forming part of the railway line between Edinburgh Park and
Haymarket stations, and then drawn in a north-easterly direction along the
centre of that track until a point in the centre of Dalry Road; then in a
northerly then easterly direction along the centre of Dalry Road to a point in
the centre of the junction of Dalry Road, Grosvenor Street, Haymarket,
Morrison Street and West Maitland Street; then in a north-easterly direction
along the centre of West Maitland Street, then Shandwick Place to a point in
the centre of the junction of Shandwick Place, Princes Street and Lothian
Road; and (b) to the west of a line starting at the point in the centre of the
junction of Shandwick Place, Princes Street and Lothian Road and then drawn
along the centre of Lothian Road, then Earl Grey Street, then Tollcross, then
Home Street, then Leven Street and then Bruntsfield Place to the ward
boundary.             (36)       The “Drum Brae area” is that part of ward 3
(Drum Brae/Gyle) to the east and south of a line starting at the point on the
southern ward boundary which is in the centre of the first footpath underpass
under the railway line to the east of Edinburgh Park Station, and then drawn
in a northerly direction along the centre of that footpath to a point which is
opposite the most westerly point of the centre of Cultins Road, then east to
that point, then in an easterly the northerly direction along the centre of
Cultins Road to a point in the centre of the junction of Cultins Road and
South Gyle Crescent; then in a north-westerly direction along the centre of
South Gyle Crescent and then along the centre of the road along the south east
side of the roundabout which forms the junction of South Gyle Crescent,
Gogarloch Road and South Gyle Broadway; then in a south-easterly direction
along the centre of South Gyle Broadway and then along the centre of the road
along the north west side of the roundabout which forms the junction of South
Gyle Broadway, South Gyle Crescent, South Gyle Access, an unnamed road and
South Gyle Wynd; then in a northerly direction along the centre of South Gyle
Wynd to the point where South Gyle Wynd joins the South Gyle Mains roundabout;
then in a north-westerly direction along the centre of the road along the west
side of the roundabout to the South Gyle Mains road that joins the roundabout
at the north-west side; then in a northerly direction along the centre of that
South Gyle Mains road to a point opposite the point in the centre between the
two road entrances to South Gyle station; and then in a north-easterly
direction across the footpath and then along the centre of South Gyle Road to
the ward boundary.             (37)       The “Sighthill area” is that part of
ward 7 (Sighthill/Gorgie): (a) to the north of a line drawn from the point of
the northern ward boundary that is in the centre of Saughton Road North, and
then in a southerly direction along the centre of Saughton Road North, then
Saughton Road to a point in the centre of the roundabout that forms the
junction of Saughton Road, Calder Road and Longstone Road; then in a north-
easterly direction along the centre of Calder Road to a point in the centre of
the junction of Calder Road, Stenhouse Road and Stevenson Drive; then in a
northerly then north-easterly direction along the centre of Stevenson Drive to
a point in the centre of the junction of Stevenson Drive and Balgreen Road;
and (b) to the west of a line starting from the point in the centre of the
junction of Stevenson Drive and Balgreen Road and then drawn in a north-
westerly direction along the centre of Balgreen Road to the ward boundary.
(38)       The “Southside Central split line” is a line starting from the
southernmost point on the western boundary of ward 8 (Southside Central) in
the centre of Victoria Road, and then drawn in a southerly direction along the
centre of Victoria Road to a point in the centre of the junction of Victoria
Road and Queen’s Drive; and then in a south-easterly direction along the
centre of Queen’s Drive to the ward boundary.             (39)       The
“Calton split line” is a line starting from the point on the western boundary
of ward 9 (Calton) which is both in the centre of the railway line to the west
of High Street station and in the centre of High Street; and then drawn in an
easterly direction along the centre of the railway to High Street station,
then to Bellgrove Station and then towards Carntyne Station to the ward
boundary.             (40)       “Anderston area A” is that part of ward 10
(Anderston/City/Yorkhill) to the east of a line drawn from a point on the
southern ward boundary in the centre of Glasgow Bridge, and then drawn in a
northerly direction along the centre of the Bridge and then Jamaica Street
until a point in the centre of the junction of Jamaica Street and Argyle
Street; then in an easterly direction along the centre of Argyle Street to a
point in the centre of the junction of Argyle Street and Queen Street; then in
a northerly direction along the centre of Queen Street and then the road
immediately to the west of George Square to a point in the centre of the road
in the northwest corner of George Square; then in an easterly direction along
the centre of the road immediately to the north of George Square and then
George Street to the ward boundary.             (41)       The “Baillieston
split line” is a line starting from the most easterly point of the boundary of
ward 20 (Baillieston) in the centre of both the A8 road and the railway line
between Garrowhill and Easterhouse stations, and then drawn in an easterly
direction along the centre of that railway line to the ward boundary.
(42)       “Anderston area B” is that part of ward 10
(Anderston/City/Yorkhill): (a) to the east of the eastern boundary of the area
of the Dundasvale Community Council; and (b) to the north of the centre line
of the road immediately to the north of George Square and George Street.
(43)       The “Canal area” is that part of ward 16 (Canal) to the east of a
line starting on the ward boundary at Ordnance Survey national grid reference
NS 59683 66741 and then drawn in a southerly direction along the centre of the
railway line running between Spingburn and Glasgow Queen Street stations to
Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 59625 66602; then to Ordnance
Survey national grid reference NS 59614 66607; then to Ordnance Survey
national grid reference NS 59566 66603; then in a south-westerly direction
along the eastern edge of the Forth and Clyde Canal to Ordnance Survey
national grid reference NS 59440 66480; then in a southerly then easterly
direction along the centre of the footpath to the south and west of that grid
reference to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 59532 66381; and then
to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 59520 66351 on the ward
boundary.             (44)       The “Partick East area” is that part of ward
23 (Partick East/Kelvindale) to the northwest of the railway line between
Anniesland and Kelvindale stations.             (45)       The “Newlands split
line” is a line starting at the point on the ward 2 (Newlands/Auldburn)
boundary in the centre of the railway line between Priesthill and Darnley and
Kennishead stations, and then drawn in a easterly direction along the centre
of the railway line to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 53918 60105;
then to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 54198 60068; and then in a
southerly direction along the eastern boundary of polling district PK0702 to
the ward boundary.             (46)       The “Cardonald area” is that part of
ward 4 (Cardonald): (a) to the south of a line starting at the point in the
centre of the junction of the A761 Paisley Road West and the A736, and then
drawn in an easterly direction along the centre of Paisley Road West to the
ward boundary; and (b) to the east of a line starting at the point in the
centre of the junction of the A736 Paisley Road West and the A736, and then
drawn in a southerly direction along the centre of Crookston Road to Ordnance
Survey national grid reference NS 52045 63417; then in an easterly direction
along the unnamed road to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 52093
63419; then to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 52128 63419; then to
Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 52137 63395; and then in a
southerly direction along the centre of White Cart Water to the ward boundary.
(47)       The “Garscadden area” is that part of ward 13
(Garscadden/Scoutstounhill): (a) to the north of a line starting from the
point on the western ward boundary in the centre of the railway line between
Yoker and Garscadden stations, and then drawn in an easterly direction along
the centre of the railway line to the point which is in the centre of Kelso
Street; and (b) to the west of a line starting at the point in the centre of
both Kelso Street and the railway line between Yoker and Garscadden stations,
and then drawn in a northerly direction along Kelso Street to the northern end
of that Street and then directly north to the ward boundary.             (48)
The “West Garioch area” is that part of ward 10 (West Garioch) to the east of
a line starting at the point of the western ward boundary in the centre of the
tributary to the River Don which runs west to east between The Cornyard,
Kemnay, Inverurie AB51 5NA to the north and the River Don to the south, and
then drawn in an easterly direction along the centre of that tributary to the
River Don; and then in a northerly direction along the centre of the River Don
to the ward boundary.             (49)       The “southern Gordon boundary” is
the southern boundary of the Gordon constituency, as that constituency existed
immediately before the coming into force of this Order.             (50)
The “Clydesdale West split line” is a line starting on the boundary of ward 1
(Clydesdale West) at Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 82283 48208
and then drawn in a southerly direction along the centre of the River Clyde to
the point where the Mashock Burn joins the River Clyde; then in an easterly
direction along the centre of the Mashock Burn to Ordnance Survey national
grid reference 83326 46658; then to the property boundary at Ordnance Survey
national grid reference NS 83326 46654; then in a southerly direction along
the eastern boundary of that property until the southeast corner of that
boundary; then to a point in the centre of Birkhill Road opposite that
boundary point; then in an easterly direction along the centre of the Birkhill
Road to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NS 83485 46579; then to the
northeast corner of the field boundary which lies immediately south of that
grid reference; then in a southerly direction along the eastern boundary of
that field to the southeast corner of that boundary; then to the point in the
centre of Nemphlar Moor Road opposite that corner; and then in an easterly
direction along the centre of Nemphlar Moor Road to the ward boundary.
(51)       The “Houston split line” is a line starting at Ordnance Survey
national grid reference NS 43217 66897 then drawn to Ordnance Survey national
grid reference NS 43231 66908 on the western boundary of the field immediately
to the northeast; then in a northerly direction along that western boundary of
that field to the northwest corner of that field boundary; then to the point
in the centre of the B790 road opposite that corner; and then in an easterly
direction along the centre of the B790 road to the ward 10 (Houston, Crosslee
and Linwood) boundary.             (52)       “Bishopton split line” is a line
starting from the point on the western boundary of ward 11 (Bishopton, Bridge
of Weir and Langbank) in the centre of West Glen Road, and then drawn in an
easterly direction along the centre of West Glen Road to a point in the centre
of the junction of West Glen Road and Barochan Road; and then in a southerly
direction along the centre of Barochan Road to the ward boundary.
(53)       The “Culloden split line” is a line starting from a point on the
ward 17 (Culloden and Ardersier) boundary at Ordnance Survey national grid
reference NH 70729 48034 and then drawn in a south-easterly direction along
the southern boundary of polling district I17D to a point in the centre of the
A96 road; then in a north-easterly direction along the centre of the A96 road
to the western boundary of the area of the Croy and Culloden Moor Community
Council; then in a south-easterly direction along that boundary to Ordnance
Survey national grid reference NH 74838 47562; then in a north-easterly
direction along the centre of a forest track to Ordnance Survey national grid
reference NH 76119 48279; then in a straight line to Ordnance Survey national
grid reference NH 76892 47472; and then in a south-westerly direction along a
forest track to the ward boundary.             (54)       The “Paisley
Northwest split line” is a line starting from the eastern-most point of the
western boundary of ward 4 (Paisley Northwest) in the centre of the railway
line between Johnstone and Paisley Gilmour Street station; and then drawn in a
north-easterly direction along the centre of that railway line to a point in
the centre of the B7050 Gallow Green Road; then in a northerly direction along
the centre of the B7050 Gallow Green Road to a point in the centre of the
roundabout that is the junction of that road and Well Street; then in a north-
westerly direction along the centre of Well Street to a point in the centre of
the junction of that street and McKenzie Street; then in a north-easterly
direction along the centre of McKenzie Street to a point in the centre of the
junction of that street and Drums Crescent; then in a north-westerly direction
along the centre of Drums Crescent to a point in the centre of the junction of
that road and Drums Avenue; then in an easterly direction along the centre of
Drums Avenue to a point in the centre of the junction of that road and
Greenhill Road; then in a northerly direction along the centre of Greenhill
Road to a point in the centre of the junction of that road and Murray Street;
then in an easterly direction along the centre of Murray Street to a point in
the centre of the junction of that road, Albion Street, Greenock Road and
Caledonia Street; then in a southerly direction along the centre of Caledonia
Street to a point at the centre of the junction between that road, St. James’
Street and Underwood Road; then in a straight line from that point to a point
in the centre of the railway line at Ordnance Survey national grid reference
NS 47920 64341; and then in an easterly direction along the centre of that
railway line to the ward boundary.             (55)       “Strathallen area A”
is that part of ward 7 (Strathallen) to the north of a line starting on the
ward boundary at Ordnance Survey national grid reference NN 80556 13748 and
then drawn along the southern boundary of the area of the Muthill and
Tullibardine Community Council to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NN
88430 11460; then to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NN 88456 11544;
then to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NN 88447 11596; then to
Ordnance Survey national grid reference NN88576 11810; then to the end of a
stream at Ordnance Survey national grid reference NN 90745 12389; then in an
easterly then northerly direction along the centre of the stream to the point
where the stream joins the Piner Burn; and then in a north-easterly then
northerly direction along the centre of Piner Burn to the ward boundary.
(56)       “Strathallen area B” is that part of ward 7 (Strathallen) to the
east of a line starting at the point on the northern ward boundary which is in
the centre of the A9 road, and then drawn in a south-westerly direction along
the centre of the A9 road until the point at Ordnance Survey national grid
reference NN 97302 14407 which is in the centre of a stream; then in an
easterly direction along the centre of that stream to Ordnance Survey national
grid reference NN 97953 14034; then to Ordnance Survey national grid reference
NN 98079 13888; then to Ordnance Survey national grid reference NN 98193 13905
on the western boundary of polling district SLQ; and then in a southerly
direction along that western polling district boundary to the ward boundary.
Aberdeen North       (burgh constituency)         In the area of Aberdeen City
Council—       (a) ward 1 (Dyce/Bucksburn/Danestone);       (b) ward 2 (Bridge
of Don);       (c) ward 3 (Kingswells/Sheddocksley/ Summerhill);       (d)
ward 4 (Northfield/Mastrick North);       (e) ward 5
(Hilton/Woodside/Stockethill);       (f) ward 6 (Tillydrone/Seaton/Old
Aberdeen);       (g) ward 7 (Midstocket/Rosemount), except for the Midstocket
area .         Aberdeen South       (burgh constituency)         In the area
of Aberdeen City Council—       (a) in ward 7 (Midstocket/Rosemount), the
Midstocket area ;       (b) ward 8 (George St/Harbour);       (c) ward 9
(Lower Deeside);       (d) ward 10 (Hazlehead/Queens Cross/ Countesswells);
(e) ward 11 (Airyhall/Broomhill/Garthdee);       (f) ward 12
(Torry/Ferryhill);       (g) ward 13 (Kincorth/Nigg/Cove).
Aberdeenshire North and Moray East       (county constituency)         In the
area of Aberdeenshire Council—       (a) ward 1 (Banff and District);
(b) ward 2 (Troup);       (c) ward 3 (Fraserburgh and District);       (d) the
part of ward 4 (Central Buchan) to the northeast of the Central Buchan split
line ;       (e) ward 5 (Peterhead North and Rattray);       (f) ward 6
(Peterhead South and Cruden).       In the area of Moray Council—       (a)
ward 2 (Keith and Cullen);       (b) ward 3 (Buckie);       (c) the part of
ward 4 (Fochabers Lhanbryde) to the east of the River Spey.         Airdrie
and Shotts       (county constituency)         In the area of North
Lanarkshire Council—       (a) ward 8 (Airdrie North);       (b) ward 9
(Airdrie Central), except the Airdrie area ;       (c) ward 12 (Airdrie
South);       (d) ward 13 (Fortissat);       (e) the part of ward 16 (Mossend
and Holytown) to the east of the railway line between Whifflet and Motherwell
stations, except the Mossend area ;       (f) the part of ward 18 (Motherwell
North), to the north of the Motherwell North split line ;       (g) ward 20
(Murdostoun), except for Murdostoun area A  and Murdostoun area B .
Alloa and Grangemouth       (county constituency)         In the area of
Clackmannanshire Council—       (a) ward 1 (Clackmannanshire West);       (b)
ward 2 (Clackmannanshire North);       (c) ward 3 (Clackmannanshire Central);
(d) ward 4 (Clackmannanshire South);       (e) the part of ward 5
(Clackmannanshire East) to the south of the Clackmannanshire East split line .
In the area of Falkirk Council—       (a) ward 2 (Grangemouth);       (b) ward
4 (Carse, Kinnaird and Tryst);       (c) the part of ward 5 (Bonnybridge and
Larbert) to the north of the southern boundary of polling district FW511.
Angus and Perthshire Glens       (county constituency)         In the area of
Angus Council—       (a) ward 1 (Kirriemuir and Dean);       (b) ward 2
(Brechin and Edzell);       (c) ward 3 (Forfar and District);       (d) the
part of ward 4 (Monifieth and Sidlaw) to the west of the A90 road;       (e)
ward 8 (Montrose and District).       In the area of Perth and Kinross
Council—       (a) ward 2 (Strathmore), except for the area of Scone and
District community council;       (b) ward 3 (Blairgowrie and Glens);
(c) ward 4 (Highland);       (d) the part of ward 5 (Strathtay) to the north
of the Strathtay split line .         Arbroath and Broughty Ferry
(county constituency)         In the area of Angus Council—       (a) the part
of ward 4 (Monifieth and Sidlaw) to the east of the A90 road;       (b) ward 5
(Carnoustie and District);       (c) ward 6 (Arbroath West, Letham and
Friockheim);       (d) ward 7 (Arbroath East and Lunan).       In the area of
Dundee City Council—       (a) ward 6 (North East);       (b) the part of ward
7 (East End) to the east and north of the East End split line ;       (c) ward
8 (The Ferry).         Argyll, Bute and South Lochaber       (county
constituency)         The area of the Argyll and Bute Council.       In the
area of the Highland Council, the part of ward 21 (Fort William and
Ardnamurchan) which lies to the south of the Fort William split line .
Ayr, Carrick and Cumnock       (county constituency)         In the area of
East Ayrshire Council—       (a) ward 8 (Cumnock and New Cumnock) except for
the Cumnock area  and polling district E808;       (b) ward 9 (Doon Valley).
In the area of South Ayrshire Council—       (a) ward 3 (Ayr North) except for
the Ayr North area ;       (b) ward 4 (Ayr East);       (c) ward 5 (Ayr West);
(d) ward 7 (Maybole, North Carrick and Coylton) except for the Maybole area ;
(e) ward 8 (Girvan and South Carrick).         Bathgate and Linlithgow
(county constituency)         In the area of Falkirk Council, ward 1 (Bo’ness
and Blackness).       In the area of West Lothian Council—       (a) ward 1
(Linlithgow);       (b) the part of ward 2 (Broxburn, Uphall and Winchburgh)
to the north of the Broxburn split line ;       (c) ward 7 (Whitburn and
Blackburn);       (d) ward 8 (Bathgate);       (e) ward 9 (Armadale and
Blackridge).         Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk       (county
constituency)         In the area of Scottish Borders Council—       (a) the
part of ward 2 (Tweeddale East) to the east of the Tweeddale split line ;
(b) ward 3 (Galashiels and District);       (c) ward 4 (Selkirkshire);
(d) ward 5 (Leaderdale and Melrose);       (e) ward 6 (Mid Berwickshire);
(f) ward 7 (East Berwickshire);       (g) ward 8 (Kelso and District);
(h) ward 9 (Jedburgh and District);       (i) ward 10 (Hawick and Denholm);
(j) ward 11 (Hawick and Hermitage).         Caithness, Sutherland and Easter
Ross       (county constituency)         In the area of Highland Council—
(a) ward 1 (North, West and Central Sutherland);       (b) ward 2 (Thurso and
Northwest Caithness);       (c) ward 3 (Wick and East Caithness);       (d)
ward 4 (East Sutherland and Edderton);       (e) the part of ward 5 (Wester
Ross, Strathpeffer and Lochalsh) to the north of the Wester Ross split line ;
(f) ward 6 (Cromarty Firth);       (g) ward 7 (Tain and Easter Ross);
(h) ward 8 (Dingwall and Seaforth);       (i) ward 9 (Black Isle);       (j)
the part of ward 12 (Aird and Loch Ness) to the north of the Aird split line .
Central Ayrshire       (county constituency)         In the area of North
Ayrshire Council—       (a) ward 1 (Irvine West);       (b) ward 2 (Irvine
East);       (c) in ward 3 (Kilwinning), the Kilwinning area ;       (d) ward
10 (Irvine South).       In the area of South Ayrshire Council—       (a) ward
1 (Troon);       (b) ward 2 (Prestwick);       (c) in ward 3 (Ayr North), the
Ayr North area ;       (d) ward 6 (Kyle);       (e) in ward 7 (Maybole, North
Carrick and Coylton), the Maybole area .         Coatbridge and Bellshill
(burgh constituency)         In the area of North Lanarkshire Council—
(a) ward 6 (Gartcosh, Glenboig and Moodiesburn);       (b) ward 7 (Coatbridge
North);       (c) in ward 9 (Airdrie Central), the Airdrie area ;       (d)
ward 10 (Coatbridge West);       (e) ward 11 (Coatbridge South);       (f)
ward 14 (Thorniewood);       (g) ward 15 (Bellshill);       (h) the part of
ward 16 (Mossend and Holytown) to the west of the railway line between
Whifflet and Motherwell stations.         Cowdenbeath and Kirkcaldy
(county constituency)         In the area of Fife Council—       (a) in ward 2
(Dunfermline North), the area of the Kingseat Community Council;       (b)
ward 6 (Inverkeithing and Dalgety Bay;       (c) ward 7 (Cowdenbeath), except
for the Cowdenbeath area ;       (d) ward 9 (Burntisland, Kinghorn and Western
Kirkcaldy);       (e) ward 10 (Kirkcaldy North);       (f) ward 11 (Kirkcaldy
Central);       (g) ward 12 (Kirkcaldy East).         Cumbernauld and
Kirkintilloch       (county constituency)         In the area of East
Dunbartonshire Council—       (a) the part of ward 6 (Lenzie and Kirkintilloch
South) to the east of the Lenzie split line ;       (b) the part of ward 7
(Kirkintilloch East and North and Twechar) to the east of the Kirkintilloch
split line .       The following wards of North Lanarkshire Council—       (a)
ward 1 (Kilsyth);       (b) ward 2 (Cumbernauld North);       (c) ward 3
(Cumbernauld South);       (d) ward 4 (Cumbernauld East);       (e) ward 5
(Stepps, Chryston and Muirhead).         Dumfries and Galloway       (county
constituency)         In the area of Dumfries and Galloway Council—       (a)
ward 1 (Stranraer and the Rhins);       (b) ward 2 (Mid Galloway and Wigtown
West);       (c) ward 3 (Dee and Glenkens);       (d) ward 4 (Castle Douglas
and Crocketford);       (e) ward 5 (Abbey);       (f) ward 6 (North West
Dumfries);       (g) in ward 7 (Mid and Upper Nithsdale), the areas of the
Glencairn and Dunscore Community Councils;       (h) in ward 8 (Lochar), the
Lochar area ;       (i) ward 9 (Nith).         Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and
Tweeddale       (county constituency)         In the area of Dumfries and
Galloway Council—       (a) ward 7 (Mid and Upper Nithsdale), except the areas
of the Glencairn and Dunscore Community Councils;       (b) ward 8 (Lochar),
except for the Lochar area ;       (c) ward 10 (Annandale South);       (d)
ward 11 (Annandale North);       (e) ward 12 (Annandale East and Eskdale).
In the area of Scottish Borders Council—       (a) ward 1 (Tweeddale West);
(b) the part of ward 2 (Tweeddale East) to the west of the Tweeddale split
line .       In the area of South Lanarkshire Council—       (a) ward 3
(Clydesdale East);       (b) in ward 4 (Clydesdale South), the areas of the
Douglas, Douglas Water and Rigside and Coalburn Community Councils.
Dundee Central       (burgh constituency)         In the area of Dundee City
Council—       (a) ward 1 (Strathmartine);       (b) ward 2 (Lochee);
(c) ward 3 (West End);       (d) ward 4 (Coldside);       (e) ward 5
(Maryfield);       (f) the part of ward 7 (East End) to the west and south of
the East End split line .         Dunfermline and Dollar       (county
constituency)         In the area of Clackmannanshire Council, the part of
ward 5 (Clackmannanshire East) to the north of the Clackmannanshire East split
line .       In the area of Fife Council—       (a) ward 1 (West Fife and
Coastal Villages);       (b) ward 2 (Dunfermline North), except for the area
of the Kingseat Community Council;       (c) ward 3 (Dunfermline Central);
(d) ward 4 (Dunfermline South);       (e) ward 5 (Rosyth).         East
Kilbride and Strathaven       (county constituency)         The following
wards of South Lanarkshire Council—       (a) ward 5 (Avondale and
Stonehouse);       (b) ward 6 (East Kilbride South);       (c) ward 7 (East
Kilbride Central South);       (d) ward 8 (East Kilbride Central North);
(e) ward 9 (East Kilbride West);       (f) ward 10 (East Kilbride East).
East Renfrewshire       (county constituency)     The area of East
Renfrewshire Council.     Edinburgh East and Musselburgh       (burgh
constituency)         In the area of City of Edinburgh Council—       (a) in
ward 11 (City Centre), City Centre area A ;       the part of ward 12 (Leith
Walk) to the east of the eastern boundary of the Edinburgh North and Leith
constituency, as that constituency existed immediately before the coming into
force of this Order;       (b) in ward 13 (Leith), Leith area A  and Leith
area B ;       (c) ward 14 (Craigentinny/Duddingston);       (d) the part of
ward 15 (Southside/Newington) to the north of the Southside split line ;
(e) ward 17 (Portobello/Craigmillar).       In the area of East Lothian
Council, the part of ward 1 (Musselburgh) to the west of the Musselburgh split
line .         Edinburgh North and Leith       (burgh constituency)         In
the area of City of Edinburgh Council—       (a) the part of ward 1 (Almond)
to the east of the eastern boundary of the area of the Silverknowes Community
Council;       (b) ward 4 (Forth);       (c) the part of ward 5 (Inverleith)
to the east of the Inverleith split line ;       (d) in ward 11 (City Centre),
City Centre area B ;       the part of ward 12 (Leith Walk) to the west of the
eastern boundary of the Edinburgh North and Leith constituency, as that
constituency existed immediately before the coming into force of this Order;
(e) ward 13 (Leith), except for Leith area A  and Leith area B .
Edinburgh South       (burgh constituency)         In the area of City of
Edinburgh Council—       (a) the part of ward 8 (Colinton/Fairmilehead) to the
east of the Colinton split line ;       (b) ward 10 (Morningside), except
Morningside area A  and Morningside area B ;       (c) the part of ward 15
(Southside/Newington) to the south of the Southside split line ;       (d)
ward 16 (Liberton/Gilmerton).         Edinburgh South West       (burgh
constituency)         In the area of City of Edinburgh Council—       (a) the
part of ward 2 (Pentland Hills) to the south of the Pentland split line ;
(b) in ward 3 (Drum Brae/Gyle), the Drum Brae area ;       (c) ward 7
(Sighthill/Gorgie) except the Sighthill area ;       (d) the part of ward 8
(Colinton/Fairmilehead) to the west of the Colinton split line ;       (e)
ward 9 (Fountainbridge/Craiglockhart);       (f) in ward 10 (Morningside),
Morningside area A  and Morningside area B ;       (g) ward 11 (City Centre),
City Centre area C .         Edinburgh West       (burgh constituency)
In the area of City of Edinburgh Council—       (a) the part of ward 1
(Almond) to the west of the eastern boundary of the area of the Silverknowes
Community Council;       (b) the part of ward 2 (Pentland Hills) to the north
of the Pentland split line ;       (c) ward 3 (Drum Brae/Gyle), except the
Drum Brae area ;       (d) the part of ward 5 (Inverleith) to the west of the
Inverleith split line ;       (e) ward 6 (Corstorphine/Murrayfield);       (f)
in ward 7 (Sighthill/Gorgie), the Sighthill area ;       (g) ward 11 (City
Centre) except City Centre area A , City Centre area B  and City Centre area C
.         Falkirk       (county constituency)         In the area of Falkirk
Council—       (a) ward 3 (Denny and Banknock);       (b) the part of ward 5
(Bonnybridge and Larbert) to the south of the southern boundary of polling
district FW511;       (c) ward 6 (Falkirk North);       (d) ward 7 (Falkirk
South);       (e) ward 8 (Lower Braes);       (f) ward 9 (Upper Braes).
Glasgow East       (burgh constituency)         In the area of Glasgow City
Council—       (a) the part of ward 8 (Southside Central) to the east of the
Southside Central split line ;       (b) the part of ward 9 (Calton) to the
south of the Calton split line ;       (c) in ward 10
(Anderston/City/Yorkhill), Anderston area A ;       (d) ward 19 (Shettleston);
(e) the part of ward 20 (Baillieston) to the south of the Baillieston split
line .         Glasgow North       (burgh constituency)         In the area of
Glasgow City Council—       (a) ward 10 (Anderston/City/Yorkhill), except
Anderston area A  and Anderston area B ;       (b) ward 11 (Hillhead);
(c) ward 15 (Maryhill);       (d) ward 16 (Canal), except the Canal area ;
(e) the part of ward 23 (Partick East/Kelvindale) to the north of the A82
Great Western Road, except for the Partick East area .         Glasgow North
East       (burgh constituency)         In the area of Glasgow City Council—
(a) the part of ward 9 (Calton) to the north of the Calton split line ;
(b) in ward 10 (Anderston/City/Yorkhill), Anderston area B ;       (c) in ward
16 (Canal), the Canal area ;       (d) ward 17 (Springburn/Robroyston);
(e) ward 18 (East Centre);       (f) the part of ward 20 (Baillieston) to the
north of the Baillieston split line ;       (g) ward 21 (North East);
(h) ward 22 (Dennistoun).         Glasgow South       (burgh constituency)
In the area of Glasgow City Council—       (a) ward 1 (Linn);       (b) the
part of ward 2 (Newlands/Auldburn) to the north and east of the Newlands split
line ;       (c) the part of ward 6 (Pollokshields) to the south of the
railway line between Pollokshaws West, Crossmyloof and Rutherglen stations;
(d) ward 7 (Langside);       (e) the part of ward 8 (Southside Central) to the
west of the Southside Central split line .         Glasgow South West
(burgh constituency)         In the area of Glasgow City Council—       (a)
the part of ward 2 (Newlands/Auldburn) to the south and west of the Newlands
split line ;       (b) ward 3 (Greater Pollok);       (c) in ward 4
(Cardonald), the Cardonald area ;       (d) ward 5 (Govan);       (e) the part
of ward 6 (Pollokshields) to the north of the railway line between Pollokshaws
West, Crossmyloof and Rutherglen stations.         Glasgow West       (burgh
constituency)         In the area of Glasgow City Council—       (a) ward 12
(Victoria Park);       (b) ward 13 (Garscadden/Scotstounhill), except for the
Garscadden area ;       (c) ward 14 (Drumchapel/Anniesland);       (d) in ward
23 (Partick East/Kelvindale)—       (i) the part of the ward to the south of
the A82 Great Western Road, and       (ii) the Partick East area .
Glenrothes and Mid Fife       (county constituency)         In the area of
Fife Council—       (a) in ward 7 (Cowdenbeath), the Cowdenbeath area ;
(b) ward 8 (Lochgelly, Cardenden and Benarty);       (c) ward 13 (Glenrothes
West and Kinglassie);       (d) ward 14 (Glenrothes North, Leslie and
Markinch);       (e) ward 15 (Glenrothes Central and Thornton);       (f) ward
22 (Buckhaven, Methil and Wemyss Villages).         Gordon and Buchan
(county constituency)         In the area of Aberdeenshire Council—       (a)
the part of ward 4 (Central Buchan) to the southwest of the Central Buchan
split line ;       (b) ward 7 (Turriff and District);       (c) ward 8 (Mid
Formartine);       (d) ward 9 (Ellon and District);       (e) ward 10 (West
Garioch), except the West Garioch area ;       (f) ward 11 (Inverurie and
District);       (g) ward 12 (East Garioch), except for the three parts of
that ward to the south of the southern Gordon boundary ;       (h) in ward 13
(Westhill and District), the two parts of that ward to the north of the
southern Gordon boundary ;       (i) ward 14 (Huntly, Strathbogie and Howe of
Alford), except for the three parts of that ward to the south of the southern
Gordon boundary ;       (j) in ward 15 (Aboyne, Upper Deeside and Donside),
the five parts of that ward to the north of the southern Gordon boundary .
Hamilton and Clyde Valley       (county constituency)         In the area of
South Lanarkshire Council—       (a) the part of ward 1 (Clydesdale West) to
the southwest of the Clydesdale West split line ;       (b) the part of ward 2
(Clydesdale North) to the south of the railway line between Carluke and
Carstairs stations;       (c) ward 4 (Clydesdale South), except for the areas
of the Douglas, Douglas Water and Rigside and Coalburn Community Councils;
(d) ward 17 (Hamilton North and East);       (e) ward 18 (Hamilton West and
Earnock);       (f) ward 19 (Hamilton South);       (g) ward 20 (Larkhall).
Inverclyde and Renfrewshire West       (county constituency)         The area
of Inverclyde Council.       In the area of Renfrewshire Council—       (a) in
ward 10 (Houston, Crosslee and Linwood)—       (i) the area of the Houston
Community Council except for that part of that area to the east of the Houston
split line ;       (ii) the area of the Bridge of Weir Community Council;
(b) the part of ward 11 (Bishopton, Bridge of Weir and Langbank) to the south
of the Bishopton split line .         Inverness, Skye and West Ross-shire
(county constituency)         In the area of the Highland Council—       (a)
the part of ward 5 (Wester Ross, Strathpeffer and Lochalsh) to the south of
the Wester Ross split line ;       (b) ward 10 (Eilean a’ Cheò);       (c)
ward 11 (Caol and Mallaig);       (d) the part of ward 12 (Aird and Loch Ness)
to the north of the Aird split line ;       (e) ward 13 (Inverness West);
(f) ward 14 (Inverness Central);       (g) ward 15 (Inverness Ness-side);
(h) ward 16 (Inverness Millburn);       (i) the part of ward 17 (Culloden and
Ardersier) to the south of the Culloden split line ;       (j) ward 19
(Inverness South);       (k) the part of ward 21 (Fort William and
Ardnamurchan) to the north of the Fort William split line .         Kilmarnock
and Loudoun       (county constituency)         In the area of East Ayrshire
Council—       (a) ward 1 (Annick);       (b) ward 2 (Kilmarnock North);
(c) ward 3 (Kilmarnock West and Crosshouse);       (d) ward 4 (Kilmarnock East
and Hurlford);       (e) ward 5 (Kilmarnock South);       (f) ward 6 (Irvine
Valley);       (g) ward 7 (Ballochmyle);       (h) in ward 8 (Cumnock and New
Cumnock), the Cumnock area  and polling district E808.         Livingston
(county constituency)         In the area of West Lothian Council—       (a)
the part of ward 2 (Broxburn, Uphall and Winchburgh) to the south of the
Broxburn split line ;       (b) ward 3 (Livingston North);       (c) ward 4
(Livingston South);       (d) ward 5 (East Livingston and East Calder);
(e) ward 6 (Fauldhouse and the Breich Valley).         Lothian East
(county constituency)         In the area of East Lothian Council—       (a)
the part of ward 1 (Musselburgh) to the east of the Musselburgh split line ;
(b) ward 2 (Preston, Seton and Gosford);       (c) ward 3 (Tranent, Wallyford
and Macmerry);       (d) ward 4 (North Berwick Coastal);       (e) ward 5
(Haddington and Lammermuir);       (f) ward 6 (Dunbar and East Linton).
Mid Dunbartonshire       (county constituency)         In the area of East
Dunbartonshire Council—       (a) ward 1 (Milngavie);       (b) ward 2
(Bearsden North);       (c) ward 3 (Bearsden South);       (d) ward 4
(Bishopbriggs North and Campsie);       (e) ward 5 (Bishopbriggs South);
(f) the part of ward 6 (Lenzie and Kirkintilloch South) to the west of the
Lenzie split line ;       (g) the part of ward 7 (Kirkintilloch East and North
and Twechar) to the west of the Kirkintilloch split line .         Midlothian
(county constituency)     The area of the Midlothian Council.     Moray West,
Nairn and Strathspey       (county constituency)         In the area of the
Highland Council—       (a) the part of ward 17 (Culloden and Ardersier) to
the north of the Culloden split line ;       (b) ward 18 (Nairn and Cawdor);
(c) ward 20 (Badenoch and Strathspey).       In the area of Moray Council—
(a) ward 1 (Speyside Glenlivet);       (b) the part of ward 4 (Fochabers
Lhanbryde) to the west of the River Spey;       (c) ward 5 (Heldon and Laich);
(d) ward 6 (Elgin City North);       (e) ward 7 (Elgin City South);       (f)
ward 8 (Forres).         Motherwell, Wishaw and Carluke       (county
constituency)         In the area of North Lanarkshire Council—       (a) in
ward 16 (Mossend and Holytown), the Mossend area ;       (b) ward 17
(Motherwell West);       (c) the part of ward 18 (Motherwell North) to the
south of the Motherwell North split line ;       (d) ward 19 (Motherwell South
East and Ravenscraig);       (e) in ward 20 (Murdostoun), Murdostoun area A
and Murdostoun area B ;       (f) ward 21 (Wishaw).       In the area of South
Lanarkshire Council—       (a) the part of ward 1 (Clydesdale West) to the
northeast of the Clydesdale West split line ;       (b) the part of ward 2
(Clydesdale North) to the north of the railway line between Carluke and
Carstairs stations.         Na h-Eileanan an Iar       (county constituency)
The area of Comhairle nan Eilean Siar.     North Ayrshire and Arran
(county constituency)         In the area of North Ayrshire Council—       (a)
ward 3 (Kilwinning) except the Kilwinning area ;       (b) ward 4
(Stevenston);       (c) ward 5 (Ardrossan and Arran);       (d) ward 6 (Dalry
and West Kilbride);       (e) ward 7 (Kilbirnie and Beith);       (f) ward 8
(North Coast and Cumbraes);       (g) ward 9 (Saltcoats).         North East
Fife       (county constituency)         The following wards of Fife Council—
(a) ward 16 (Howe of Fife and Tay Coast);       (b) ward 17 (Tay Bridgehead);
(c) ward 18 (St Andrews);       (d) ward 19 (East Neuk and Landward);
(e) ward 20 (Cupar);       (f) ward 21 (Leven, Kennoway and Largo).
Orkney and Shetland       (county constituency)     The area of the Orkney
Islands Council and the area of the Shetlands Islands Council.     Paisley and
Renfrewshire North       (burgh constituency)         In the area of Glasgow
City Council, ward 4 (Cardonald) except the Cardonald area .       In the area
of Renfrewshire Council—       (a) ward 1 (Renfrew North and Braehead);
(b) ward 2 (Renfrew South and Gallowhill);       (c) ward 3 (Paisley Northeast
and Ralston);       (d) the part of ward 4 (Paisley Northwest) to the north of
the Paisley Northwest split line ;       (e) in ward 10 (Houston, Crosslee and
Linwood), the area of the Houston Community Council except for the part of
that area to the west of the Houston split line ;       (f) the part of ward
11 (Bishopton, Bridge of Weir and Langbank) to the north of the Bishopton
split line .       (g) ward 12 (Erskine and Inchinnan).         Paisley and
Renfrewshire South       (county constituency)         In the area of
Renfrewshire Council—       (a) the part of ward 4 (Paisley Northwest) to the
south of the Paisley Northwest split line ;       (b) ward 5 (Paisley East and
Central);       (c) ward 6 (Paisley Southeast);       (d) ward 7 (Paisley
Southwest);       (e) ward 8 (Johnstone South and Elderslie);       (f) ward 9
(Johnstone North, Kilbarchan, Howwood and Lochwinnoch);       (g) ward 10
(Houston, Crosslee and Linwood) except for the areas of the Houston and Bridge
of Weir Community Councils.         Perth and Kinross-shire       (county
constituency)         In the area of Perth and Kinross Council—       (a) ward
1 (Carse of Gowrie);       (b) in ward 2 (Strathmore), the area of Scone and
District community council;       (c) the part of ward 5 (Strathtay) to the
south of the Strathtay split line ;       (d) ward 6 (Strathearn);       (e)
in ward 7 (Strathallan), Strathallan area A  and Strathallan area B ;
(f) ward 8 (Kinross-shire);       (g) ward 9 (Almond and Earn);       (h) ward
10 (Perth City South);       (i) ward 11 (Perth City North);       (j) ward 12
(Perth City Centre).         Rutherglen       (burgh constituency)         The
following wards of South Lanarkshire Council—       (a) ward 11 (Rutherglen
South);       (b) ward 12 (Rutherglen Central and North);       (c) ward 13
(Cambuslang West);       (d) ward 14 (Cambuslang East);       (e) ward 15
(Blantyre);       (f) ward 16 (Bothwell and Uddingston).         Stirling and
Strathallan       (county constituency)         In the area of Perth and
Kinross Council, ward 7 (Strathallan) except for Strathallan area A  and
Strathallan area B .       The area of Stirling Council.         West
Aberdeenshire and Kincardine       (county constituency)         In the area
of Aberdeenshire Council—       (a) in ward 10 (West Garioch), West Garioch
area A ;       (b) the three parts of ward 12 (East Garioch) to the south of
the southern Gordon boundary ;       (c) ward 13 (Westhill and District),
except for the two parts of that ward to the north of the southern Gordon
boundary ;       (d) the three parts of ward 14 (Huntly, Strathbogie and Howe
of Alford) to the south of the southern Gordon boundary ;       (e) ward 15
(Aboyne, Upper Deeside and Donside), except for the five parts of that ward to
the north of the southern Gordon boundary ;       (f) ward 16 (Banchory and
Mid Deeside);       (g) ward 17 (North Kincardine);       (h) ward 18
(Stonehaven and Lower Deeside);       (i) ward 19 (Mearns).         West
Dunbartonshire       (county constituency)         In the area of Glasgow City
Council, in ward 13 (Garscadden/Scotstounhill), the Garscadden area .
The area of West Dunbartonshire Council.

  Name, designation and composition of constituencies in Wales

Article 5

      Name and designation Composition       Aberafan Maesteg       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the County Borough of Bridgend—
Caerau;       Cornelly;       Llangynwyd;       Maesteg East;       Maesteg
West;       Pyle.       The following wards of the County Borough of Neath
Port Talbot—       Aberavon;       Baglan;       Briton Ferry East;
Briton Ferry West;       Bryn and Cwmavon;       Cymmer;       Glyncorrwg;
Gwynfi;       Margam;       Pelenna;       Port Talbot;       Sandfields East;
Sandfields West;       Tai-bach.         Alyn and Deeside       (Alun a
Glannau Dyfrdwy)       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the County of Flintshire—       Aston;       Bagillt East;       Bagillt West;
Broughton North East;       Broughton South;       Buckley Bistre East;
Buckley Bistre West;       Buckley Mountain;       Buckley Pentrobin;
Caergwrle;       Connah’s Quay Central;       Connah’s Quay Golftyn;
Connah’s Quay South;       Connah’s Quay Wepre;       Ewloe;       Flint
Castle;       Flint Coleshill;       Flint Oakenholt;       Flint Trelawny;
Hawarden;       Higher Kinnerton;       Hope;       Llanfynydd;       Mancot;
Penyffordd;       Queensferry;       Saltney Mold Junction;       Saltney
Stonebridge;       Sealand;       Shotton East;       Shotton Higher;
Shotton West;       Treuddyn.         Bangor Aberconwy       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the County Borough of Conwy—
Betws-y-Coed;       Betws yn Rhos;       Bryn;       Caerhun;       Capelulo;
Conwy;       Craig-y-Don;       Crwst;       Deganwy;       Eglwysbach;
Gogarth;       Gower;       Llangernyw;       Llansanffraid;       Llansannan;
Marl;       Mostyn;       Pandy;       Pant-yr-Afon/Penmaenan;       Penrhyn;
Pensarn;       Trefriw;       Tudno;       Uwch Conwy;       Uwchaled.
The following wards of the County Borough of Denbighshire—       Efenechtyd;
Llanrhaeadr-Yng-Nghinmeirch.       The following wards of the County Borough
of Gwynedd—       Arllechwedd;       Deiniol;       Dewi;       Garth;
Gerlan;       Glyder;       Hendre;       Hirael;       Marchog;       Menai
(Bangor);       Ogwen;       Pentir;       Tregarth & Mynydd Llandygai.
Blaenau Gwent and Rhymney       (Blaenau Gwent a Rhymni)       (county
constituency)         The County Borough of Blaenau Gwent.       The following
wards of the County Borough of Caerphilly—       Aberbargoed;       Bargoed;
Darren Valley;       Gilfach;       Moriah;       New Tredegar;
Pontlottyn;       Twyn Carno.         Brecon, Radnor and Cwm Tawe
(Aberhonddu, Maesyfed a Chwm Tawe)       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the County Borough of Neath Port Talbot—       Allt-wen;
Cwmllynfell;       Godre’r Graig;       Gwaun-Cae-Gurwen;       Lower
Brynamman;       Pontardawe;       Rhos;       Trebanos;       Ystalyfera.
The following wards of the County Borough of Powys—       Aber-craf;
Beguildy;       Bronllys;       Builth;       Bwlch;       Crickhowell;
Cwm-twrch;       Disserth and Trecoed;       Felin-fȃch;       Glasbury;
Gwernyfed;       Hay;       Knighton;       Llanafanfawr;       Llanbadarn
Fawr;       Llandrindod East/Llandrindod West;       Llandrindod North;
Llandrindod South;       Llanelwedd;       Llangattock;       Llangors;
Llangunllo;       Llangynidr;       Llanwrtyd Wells;       Llanyre;
Maescar/Llywel;       Nantmel;       Old Radnor;       Presteigne;
Rhayader;       St. David Within;       St. John;       St. Mary;
Talgarth;       Talybont-on-Usk;       Tawe-Uchaf;       Ynyscedwyn;
Yscir;       Ystradgynlais.         Bridgend       (Pen-y-bont)       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the County Borough of Bridgend—
Aberkenfig;       Brackla;       Bryncethin;       Bryncoch;       Bryntirion,
Laleston and Merthyr Mawr;       Cefn Cribwr;       Cefn Glas;       Coity;
Coychurch Lower;       Felindre;       Hendre;       Litchard;
Llangewydd and Brynhyfryd;       Morfa;       Newcastle;       Newton;
Nottage;       Oldcastle;       Pendre;       Penprysg;       Pen-y-fai;
Porthcawl East Central;       Porthcawl West Central;       Rest Bay;
Sarn;       Ynysawdre.         Caerfyrddin       (Carmarthen)       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the County of Carmarthenshire—
Abergwili;       Ammanford;       Betws;       Carmarthen Town North;
Carmarthen Town South;       Carmarthen Town West;       Cenarth;
Cilycwm;       Cynwyl Elfed;       Cynwyl Gaeo;       Garnant;
Glanamman;       Laugharne Township;       Llanboidy;       Llanddarog;
Llandeilo;       Llandovery;       Llandybie;       Llanegwad;
Llanfihangel Aberbythych;       Llanfihangel-ar-Arth;       Llangadog;
Llangeler;       Llangunnor;       Llansteffan;       Llanybydder;
Manordeilo and Salem;       Penygroes;       Pontamman;       Quarter Bach;
St. Clears;       Saron;       Trelech;       Whitland.         Caerphilly
(Caerffili)       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
County Borough of Caerphilly—       Aber Valley;       Bedwas, Trethomas and
Machen;       Hengoed;       Llanbradach;       Maesycwmmer;       Morgan
Jones;       Nelson;       Pengam;       Penyrheol;       Pontllanfraith;
St. Cattwg;       St. James;       St. Martins;       Ynysddu;       Ystrad
Mynach.         Cardiff East       (Dwyrain Caerdydd)       (borough
constituency)         The following wards of the City and County of Cardiff—
Adamsdown;       Cyncoed;       Llanrumney;       Pentwyn;       Penylan;
Plasnewydd;       Rumney;       Trowbridge.         Cardiff North
(Gogledd Caerdydd)       (borough constituency)         The following wards of
the City and County of Cardiff—       Gabalfa;       Heath;       Lisvane;
Llandaff North;       Llanishen;       Pontprennau/Old St. Mellons;
Rhiwbina;       Whitchurch and Tongwynlais.       In the County Borough of
Rhondda Cynon Taf, the Taffs Well ward.         Cardiff South and Penarth
(De Caerdydd a Phenarth)       (borough constituency)         The following
wards of the City and County of Cardiff—       Butetown;       Cathays
Grangetown;       Splott.       The following wards of the County Borough of
the Vale of Glamorgan—       Cornerswell;       Dinas Powys;       Llandough;
Plymouth;       St. Augustine’s;       Stanwell;       Sully.         Cardiff
West       (Gorllewin Caerdydd)       (borough constituency)         The
following wards of the City and County of Cardiff—       Caerau;       Canton;
Creigiau/St. Fagans;       Ely;       Fairwater;       Llandaff;
Pentyrch;       Radyr;       Riverside.       In the County Borough of Rhondda
Cynon Taf, the Pont-y-clun ward.         Ceredigion Preseli       (county
constituency)         The County of Ceredigion.       The following wards of
the County of Pembrokeshire—       Cilgerran;       Clydau;       Crymych;
Dinas Cross;       Fishguard North East;       Fishguard North West;
Goodwick;       Llanrhian;       Maenclochog;       Newport;       St.
Dogmael’s;       Scleddau.         Clwyd East       (Dwyrain Clwyd)
(county constituency)         The following wards of the County Borough of
Denbighshire—       Dyserth;       Llanarmon-yn-Ial/Llandegla;       Llanbedr
Dyffryn Clywd/Llangynhafal;       Llandyrnog;       Llanfair Dyffryn
Clywd/Gwyddelwern;       Llangollen;       Prestatyn Central;       Prestatyn
East;       Prestatyn Meliden;       Prestatyn North;       Prestatyn South
West;       Ruthin;       Tremeirchion.       The following wards of the
County of Flintshire—       Argoed;       Brynford;       Caerwys;
Cilcain;       Ffynongroyw;       Greenfield;       Gronant;
Gwernaffield;       Gwernymynydd;       Halkyn;       Holywell Central;
Holywell East;       Holywell West;       Leeswood;       Mold Broncoed;
Mold East;       Mold South;       Mold West;       Mostyn;       New
Brighton;       Northop;       Northop Hall;       Trelawnyd and Gwaenysgor;
Whitford.       In the County Borough of Wrexham, the Llangollen Rural ward.
Clwyd North       (Gogledd Clwyd)       (county constituency)         The
following wards of the County Borough of Conwy—       Abergele Pensarn;
Colwyn;       Eirias;       Gele;       Glyn;       Kinmel Bay;
Llanddulas;       Llandrillo yn Rhos;       Llysfaen;       Mochdre;
Pentre Mawr;       Rhiw;       Towyn.       The following wards of the County
Borough of Denbighshire—       Bodelwyddan;       Denbigh Central;
Denbigh Lower;       Denbigh Upper/Henllan;       Rhuddlan;       Rhyl East;
Rhyl South;       Rhyl South East;       Rhyl South West;       Rhyl West;
St. Asaph East;       St. Asaph West;       Trefnant.         Dwyfor
Meirionnydd       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
County Borough of Denbighshire—       Corwen;       Llandrillo.       The
following wards of the County Borough of Gwynedd—       Aberdaron;
Aberdovey;       Abererch;       Abermaw;       Abersoch;       Bala;
Bethel;       Bontnewydd;       Botwnnog;       Bowydd & Rhiw;       Brithdir
a Llanfachreth/Ganllwyd/Llanelltyd;       Bryn-crug/Llanfihangel;
Cadnant;       Clynnog;       Corris/Mawddwy;       Criccieth;       Cwm-y-
Glo;       Deiniolen;       Diffwys & Maenofferen;       Dolbenmaen;
Dolgellau North;       Dolgellau South;       Dyffryn Ardudwy;       Efail
Newydd/Buan;       Groeslon;       Harlech;       Llanaelhaearn;
Llanbedr;       Llanbedrog;       Llanberis;       Llandderfel;
Llanengan;       Llangelynin;       Llanllyfni;       Llanrug;       Llanwnda;
Llanuwchllyn;       Llanystumdwy;       Menai (Caernarfon);       Morfa Nefyn;
Nefyn;       Peblig (Caernarfon);       Penisarwaun;       Penygroes;
Penrhyndeudraeth;       Porthmadog East;       Porthmadog West;
Porthmadog Tremadog;       Pwllheli North;       Pwllheli South;       Seiont;
Talysarn;       Teigl;       Trawsfynydd;       Tudweiliog;       Tywyn;
Waunfawr;       Y Felinheli.         Gower       (Gŵyr)       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the City and County of Swansea—
Bishopston;       Cockett;       Dunvant;       Fairwood;       Gorseinon;
Gower;       Gowerton;       Killay North;       Killay South;
Kingsbridge;       Llangyfelach;       Lower Loughor;       Mawr;
Mayals;       Newton;       Oystermouth;       Penclawdd;       Penllergaer;
Pennard;       Penyrheol;       Pontardulais;       Upper Loughor;       West
Cross.         Llanelli       (county constituency)         The following
wards of the County of Carmarthenshire—       Bigyn;       Burry Port;
Bynea;       Dafen;       Elli;       Felinfoel;       Glanymor;       Glyn;
Gorslas;       Hendy;       Hengoed;       Kidwelly;       Llangennech;
Llangyndeyrn;       Llannon;       Lliedi;       Llwynhendy;       Pembrey;
Pontyberem;       St Ishmael;       Swiss Valley;       Trimsaran;
Tycroes;       Tyisha.         Merthyr Tydfil and Aberdare       (Merthyr
Tudful ac Aberdȃr)       (county constituency)         The County Borough of
Merthyr Tydfil.       The following wards of the County Borough of Rhondda
Cynon Taf—       Aberaman North;       Aberaman South;       Aberdare East;
Aberdare West/Llwydcoed;       Cwmbach;       Hirwaun;       Pen-y-waun;
Rhigos.         Mid and South Pembrokeshire       (Canol a De Sir Benfro)
(county constituency)         The following wards of the County of
Pembrokeshire—       Amroth;       Burton;       Camrose;       Carew;
East Williamston;       Haverfordwest: Castle;       Haverfordwest: Garth;
Haverfordwest: Portfield;       Haverfordwest: Prendergast;
Haverfordwest: Priory;       Hundleton;       Johnston;
Kilgetty/Begelly;       Lampeter Velfrey;       Lamphey;       Letterston;
Llangwm;       Manorbier;       Martletwy;       Merlin’s Bridge;
Milford: Central;       Milford: East;       Milford: Hakin;       Milford:
Hubberston;       Milford: North;       Milford: West;       Narberth;
Narberth Rural;       Neyland: East;       Neyland: West;       Pembroke Dock:
Central;       Pembroke Dock: Llanion;       Pembroke Dock: Market;
Pembroke Dock: Pennar;       Pembroke: Monkton;       Pembroke: St. Mary
North;       Pembroke: St. Mary South;       Pembroke: St. Michael;
Penally;       Rudbaxton;       St. David’s;       St. Ishmael’s;
Saundersfoot;       Solva;       Tenby: North;       Tenby: South;       The
Havens;       Wiston.         Monmouthshire       (Sir Fynwy)       (county
constituency)     The County of Monmouthshire.     Montgomeryshire and Glyndŵr
(Maldwyn a Glyndŵr)       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the County Borough of Powys—       Banwy;       Berriew;       Blaen Hafren;
Caersws;       Churchstoke;       Dolforwyn;       Forden;       Glantwymyn;
Guilsfield;       Kerry;       Llanbrynmair;       Llandinam;
Llandrinio;       Llandysilio;       Llanfair Caereinion;       Llanfihangel;
Llanfyllin;       Llanidloes;       Llanrhaeadr-ym-Mochnant/Llansilin;
Llansantffraid;       Llanwddyn;       Machynlleth;       Meifod;
Montgomery;       Newtown Central;       Newtown East;       Newtown
Llanllwchaiarn North;       Newtown Llanllwchaiarn West;       Newtown South;
Rhiwcynon;       Trewern;       Welshpool Castle;       Welshpool Gungrog;
Welshpool Llanerchyddol.       The following wards of the County Borough of
Wrexham—       Cefn;       Chirk North;       Chirk South;       Dyffryn
Ceiriog/Ceiriog Valley;       Esclusham;       Johnstown;       Pant;
Penycae;       Penycae and Ruabon South;       Plas Madoc;       Ponciau;
Ruabon.         Neath and Swansea East       (Castell-nedd a Dwyrain Abertawe)
(county constituency)         The following wards of the County Borough of
Neath Port Talbot—       Aberdulais;       Blaengwrach;       Bryn-côch North;
Bryn-côch South;       Cadoxton;       Cimla;       Coedffranc Central;
Coedffranc North;       Coedffranc West;       Crynant;       Dyffryn;
Glynneath;       Neath East;       Neath North;       Neath South;
Onllwyn;       Resolven;       Seven Sisters;       Tonna.       The following
wards of the City and County of Swansea—       Bonymaen;       Clydach;
Llansamlet;       St. Thomas.         Newport East       (Dwyrain Casnewydd)
(county constituency)         The following wards of the City of Newport—
Alway;       Beechwood;       Bettws;       Caerleon;       Langstone;
Liswerry;       Llanwern;       Malpas;       Pillgwenlly;       Ringland;
St. Julians;       Shaftesbury;       Stow Hill;       Victoria.
Newport West and Islwyn       (Gorllewin Casnewydd ac Islwyn)       (county
constituency)         The following wards of the County Borough of Caerphilly—
Abercarn;       Argoed;       Blackwood;       Cefn Fforest;       Crosskeys;
Crumlin;       Newbridge;       Penmaen;       Risca East;       Risca West.
The following wards of the City of Newport—       Allt-yr-Yn;       Gaer;
Graig;       Marshfield;       Rogerstone;       Tredegar Park.
Pontypridd       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
County Borough of Rhondda Cynon Taf—       Abercynon;       Beddau;
Brynna;       Church Village;       Cilfynydd;       Glyncoch;       Graig;
Hawthorn;       Llanharan;       Llanharry;       Llantrisant Town;
Llantwit Fardre;       Mountain Ash East;       Mountain Ash West;
Penrhiwceiber;       Pontypridd Town;       Rhondda;       Rhydfelen
Central/Ilan;       Talbot Green;       Ton-teg;       Trallwng;
Treforest;       Tyn-y-nant;       Ynysybwl.         Rhondda and Ogmore
(Rhondda ac Ogwr)       (county constituency)         The following wards of
the County Borough of Bridgend—       Bettws;       Blackmill;
Blaengarw;       Llangeinor;       Nant-y-moel;       Ogmore Vale;
Pontycymmer.       The following wards of the County Borough of Rhondda Cynon
Taf—       Cwm Clydach;       Cymmer;       Ferndale;       Gilfach Goch;
Llwyn-y-pia;       Maerdy;       Pentre;       Pen-y-graig;       Porth;
Tonypandy;       Tonyrefail East;       Tonyrefail West;       Trealaw;
Treherbert;       Treorchy;       Tylorstown;       Ynyshir;       Ystrad.
Swansea West       (Gorllewin Abertawe)       (county constituency)
The following wards of the City and County of Swansea—       Castle;
Cwmbwrla;       Landore;       Morriston;       Mynyddbach;       Penderry;
Sketty;       Townhill;       Uplands.         Torfaen       (county
constituency)     The County Borough of Torfaen.     Vale of Glamorgan
(Bro Morgannwg)       (county constituency)         The following wards of the
County Borough of the Vale of Glamorgan—       Baruc;       Buttrills;
Cadoc;       Castleland;       Court;       Cowbridge;       Dyfan;
Gibbonsdown;       Illtyd;       Llandow/Ewenny;       Llantwit Major;
Peterston-super-Ely;       Rhoose;       St. Athan;       St. Bride’s Major;
Wenvoe.         Wrexham       (Wrecsam)       (county constituency)
The following wards of the County Borough of Wrexham—       Acton;
Borras Park;       Bronington;       Brymbo;       Bryn Cefn;
Brynyffynnon;       Cartrefle;       Coedpoeth;       Erddig;       Garden
Village;       Gresford East and West;       Grosvenor;       Gwenfro;
Gwersyllt East and South;       Gwersyllt North;       Gwersyllt West;
Hermitage;       Holt;       Little Acton;       Llay;       Maesydre;
Marchwiel;       Marford and Hoseley;       Minera;       New Broughton;
Offa;       Overton;       Queensway;       Rhosesni;       Rosset;
Smithfield;       Stansty;       Whitegate;       Wynnstay.         Ynys Môn
(county constituency)     The area of the Isle of Anglesey County Council.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Order)

  This Order gives effect to—         the report of the Boundary Commission
for England published 28th June 2023, which contains the Commission’s
recommendations for parliamentary constituencies in England,           the
report of the Boundary Commission for Northern Ireland published 28th June
2023, which contains the Commission’s recommendations for parliamentary
constituencies in Northern Ireland,           the report of the Boundary
Commission for Scotland published 28th June 2023 and the statement of
modifications dated 4th September 2023 and published 14th September 2023,
which contains the Commission’s recommendations for parliamentary
constituencies in Scotland, and           the report of the Boundary
Commission for Wales published 28th June 2023, which contains the Commission’s
recommendations for parliamentary constituencies in Wales.

  The recommendations in each report were created following a review by the
relevant Boundary Commission of the representation of their respective part of
the United Kingdom in the House of Commons.

  Articles 2 to 5 of, and Schedules 1 to 4 to, this Order set out and describe
the constituencies into which England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales
respectively are divided.

  Article 6 requires each electoral registration officer to re-arrange or
adapt the registers of parliamentary electors as necessary to give effect to
this Order.

  Article 7 amends the Parliamentary Constituencies and Assembly Electoral
Regions (Wales) Order 2006 ( S.I. 2006/1041 ) to remove references to
parliamentary constituencies from that Order which are redundant as a result
of this Order. Article 8 contains consequential revocations.

  By virtue of section 4(6) of the Parliamentary Constituencies Act  1986 (c.
50) , the coming into force of this Order does not affect any parliamentary
election until a proclamation is issued by His Majesty summoning a new
Parliament or affect the constitution of the House of Commons until the
dissolution of the Parliament then in being.

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

