Title: Aggregates Tax and Devolved Taxes Administration (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-11-12
Publisher: King's Printer for Scotland
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/14/enacted

## Aggregates Tax and Devolved Taxes Administration (Scotland) Act 2024

### Scottish aggregates tax

#### The tax

##### The tax

1

1.1

A tax (to be known as Scottish aggregates tax) is to be charged on aggregate
when it is subjected to commercial exploitation in Scotland.

1.2

Revenue Scotland is responsible for the collection and management of the tax.

##### Overview of Part 1

2

2.1

This Part is arranged as follows.

2.2

This Chapter establishes Scottish aggregates tax and provides an overview of
Part 1 of the Act.

2.3

Chapter 2 contains provisions about the key concepts underlying the tax,
including—

2.3.a

which aggregate is taxable,

2.3.b

which aggregate is exempt from the tax,

2.3.c

what is commercial exploitation, and

2.3.d

who is liable to pay the tax.

2.4

Chapter 3 contains provisions about the calculation of the tax, including—

2.4.a

how the tax is calculated, and

2.4.b

when credit is available in relation to the tax.

2.5

Chapter 4 contains provisions about the administration of the tax.

2.6

Chapter 5 contains provisions about penalties in relation to the tax.

2.7

Chapter 6 contains provisions about reviews and appeals of decisions by
Revenue Scotland in relation to the tax.

2.8

Chapter 7 contains provisions about interpretation.

#### Key concepts

##### Meaning of “aggregate”

###### Meaning of “aggregate”

3

In  this Part  “ aggregate ” means (subject to  section 4 ) any rock, gravel
or sand, together with whatever substances—

3.a

are for the time being incorporated in the rock, gravel or sand, or

3.b

naturally occur mixed with it.

###### Excepted processes

4

4.1

In this Part references to aggregate—

4.1.a

include references to the spoil, waste, off-cuts and other by-products
resulting from the application of any excepted process to any aggregate, but

4.1.b

do not include references to anything else resulting from the application of
any excepted process to any aggregate.

4.2

In this Part “ excepted process ” means—

4.2.a

the cutting of any rock to produce stone with one or more flat surfaces,

4.2.b

any process by which a relevant substance is extracted or otherwise separated
(whether as part of the process of winning it from any land or otherwise) from
any aggregate,

4.2.c

any process for the production of lime or cement from limestone (which for the
purposes of this paragraph includes chalk and dolomite) or from limestone and
anything else,

4.2.d

in the case of aggregate consisting of shale, any process consisting of a use
of the shale that—

4.2.d.i

is not a use of it as material or support in the construction or improvement
of any structure, and

4.2.d.ii

is not mixing it with anything as part of the process of producing mortar,
concrete, tarmacadam, coated roadstone or any similar construction material.

4.3

In  subsection (2) (b) , “ relevant substance ” means any of the following—

4.3.a

anhydrite,

4.3.b

ball clay,

4.3.c

barytes,

4.3.d

china clay,

4.3.e

feldspar,

4.3.f

fireclay,

4.3.g

fluorspar,

4.3.h

fuller’s earth,

4.3.i

gems and semi-precious stones,

4.3.j

gypsum,

4.3.k

any metal or the ore of any metal,

4.3.l

muscovite,

4.3.m

perlite,

4.3.n

potash,

4.3.o

pumice,

4.3.p

rock phosphates,

4.3.q

sodium chloride,

4.3.r

talc,

4.3.s

vermiculite.

4.4

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations add a substance to, or remove a
substance from, the list in  subsection (3) .

##### Taxable and exempt aggregate

###### Taxable aggregate

5

5.1

Tax is to be charged only on taxable aggregate.

5.2

In  this Part  a quantity of aggregate is taxable aggregate on any occasion
that it is subjected to commercial exploitation, except to the extent that it
is exempt aggregate under  section 6 .

###### Exempt aggregate

6

6.1

A quantity of aggregate is exempt aggregate to the extent that it falls within
subsections (2)  to  (8)  of  this section .

6.2

Aggregate is exempt under this subsection if it is, or derives from, any
aggregate that has already been subjected to a charge to tax.

6.3

Aggregate is exempt under this subsection if it has previously been used for
construction purposes (whether before or after the date on which this section
comes into force).

6.4

Aggregate is exempt under this subsection if it is aggregate that, on the date
on which this section comes into force, is on a site other than—

6.4.a

its originating site, or

6.4.b

a site that is required to be registered under  section 18  under the name of
a person who is the operator, or one of the operators, of that originating
site.

6.5

Aggregate is exempt under this subsection if it consists wholly of aggregate
won by being removed from the ground on the site of any structure or any
proposed structure, or the site of any infrastructure or any proposed
infrastructure relating to transportation or utilities, in the course of
excavations lawfully carried out—

6.5.a

in connection with, and necessary for, the construction, modification,
maintenance or improvement of the structure or infrastructure, and

6.5.b

not for the purpose of extracting that aggregate.

6.6

Aggregate is exempt under this subsection if it consists wholly of aggregate
won—

6.6.a

by being removed from the bed of any river, canal or watercourse (whether
natural or artificial) or of any channel in or approach to any port or harbour
(whether natural or artificial), and

6.6.b

in the course of the carrying out of any dredging undertaken exclusively for
the purpose of creating, restoring, improving or maintaining that river,
canal, watercourse, channel or approach.

6.7

Aggregate is exempt under this subsection if it consists wholly of the spoil
from any process by which—

6.7.a

coal (including bituminous coal, cannel coal and anthracite),

6.7.b

lignite,

6.7.c

slate, or

6.7.d

a substance listed in  section 4 (3) ,

has been separated from other rock after being extracted or won with that
other rock.

6.8

Aggregate is exempt under this subsection if it consists wholly or mainly of
any one or more of the following, or is part of anything consisting wholly or
mainly of the following—

6.8.a

coal (including bituminous coal, cannel coal and anthracite),

6.8.b

lignite,

6.8.c

slate,

6.8.d

the spoil or waste from, or other by-products of—

6.8.d.i

any industrial combustion process, or

6.8.d.ii

the smelting or refining of metal,

6.8.e

the drill-cuttings resulting from any operations carried out in accordance
with a licence granted under the Petroleum Act 1998 or the Petroleum
(Production) Act (Northern Ireland) 1964,

6.8.f

clay, soil or vegetable or other organic matter.

6.9

For the purposes of  subsection (2) , aggregate has already been subjected to
a charge to tax if and only if—

6.9.a

there has been a previous occasion on which a charge to tax on that aggregate
has arisen and at least some of the tax previously charged on that aggregate
is either—

6.9.a.i

tax in respect of which there is or was no entitlement to a tax credit, or

6.9.a.ii

tax in respect of which any entitlement to a tax credit is or was an
entitlement to a tax credit of an amount less than the amount of the tax
charged on it, or

6.9.b

before the date on which this section comes into force, there has been an
occasion on which a charge to aggregates levy on that aggregate has arisen
under the Finance Act 2001.

6.10

An entitlement to tax credit which arises where a quantity of aggregate is
used in an industrial or agricultural process specified in regulations by
virtue of  section 15 (6)  is to be disregarded for the purposes of  paragraph
(a)  of  subsection (9)  (and therefore for the purposes of that paragraph no
entitlement to a tax credit has arisen).

##### Commercial exploitation of aggregate

###### Commercial exploitation

7

7.1

In this Part a quantity of aggregate is subjected to exploitation if and only
if—

7.1.a

it is removed from a site falling within  subsection (2) ,

7.1.b

it becomes the subject of an agreement to supply it to any person,

7.1.c

it is used for construction purposes, or

7.1.d

it is mixed, otherwise than in permitted circumstances, with any material or
substance (other than water).

7.2

The sites which fall within this subsection are—

7.2.a

the originating site of the aggregate,

7.2.b

any site which is not the originating site of the aggregate but is registered
under the name of a person under whose name the originating site is also
registered,

7.2.c

any site not falling within  paragraph (a)  or  (b)  to which the quantity of
aggregate had been removed for the purpose of having an excepted process
applied to it on that site, but at which no such process has been applied to
it.

7.3

In this Part a quantity of aggregate is subjected to commercial exploitation
if and only if its exploitation is carried out in the course or furtherance of
a business carried on by a person responsible for subjecting it to
exploitation (and for the purposes of this subsection “ business ” includes
any activity of the Scottish Administration, a Minister of the Crown, local
authority or charity).

7.4

But a quantity of aggregate is not subjected to commercial exploitation if its
exploitation—

7.4.a

consists in the removal of aggregate from one registered site to another,
where both sites are registered under the name of the same person,

7.4.b

consists in or requires the removal of aggregate to a registered site for the
purpose of having an excepted process applied to it on that site,

7.4.c

consists in or requires the removal of aggregate to any site for the purpose
of having china clay or ball clay extracted or otherwise separated from it on
that site, or

7.4.d

has the result that—

7.4.d.i

without it being subjected to any process involving it being mixed with any
other substance or material (other than water), and

7.4.d.ii

by virtue of it being used for a purpose connected with winning aggregate or
other minerals from that site,

it again becomes part of the land at the site from which it was won.

7.5

For the purposes of  subsection (1) (b) , the time when a quantity of
aggregate becomes the subject of an agreement to supply it to any person is—

7.5.a

when the agreement is entered into, or

7.5.b

in a case where the quantity of aggregate is not separately identifiable when
the agreement is entered into, the time when it is appropriated to the
agreement.

7.6

But references in this Part to the supply of a quantity of aggregate do not
include references to any supply which is effected, or is to be effected, by
the transfer or creation of any interest or right in or over land.

7.7

For the purposes of this Part, a quantity of aggregate is mixed with any
material or substance in permitted circumstances if—

7.7.a

the material or substance with which it is mixed consists wholly of a quantity
of taxable aggregate that has not previously been subjected to commercial
exploitation in Scotland, and

7.7.b

the mixing takes place on a site which, in a case where it falls within
subsection (2)  in relation to any part of the aggregate included in the
mixture, falls within subsection (2) in relation to every part of it.

7.8

For the purposes of this Part, the commercial exploitation of a quantity of
aggregate is taken to occur in Scotland if—

7.8.a

the aggregate is in Scotland at the time when it is subjected to exploitation,
or

7.8.b

subsection (9)  applies.

7.9

This subsection  applies where a quantity of aggregate is subjected to
exploitation under  subsection (1) (a)  or  (b)  as a result of the movement
of aggregate to Scotland from a place in the rest of the United Kingdom or
from United Kingdom waters.

7.10

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify this Part so as to make
further provision about the circumstances in which the exploitation of a
quantity of aggregate is taken to occur in Scotland for the purposes of
subsection (8) .

7.11

Subsection (12)  applies where, at the time when any aggregate is won from any
site, a person (“ P ”) is in occupation of that site, or both that site and
other land, for the purposes of—

7.11.a

the carrying on of any agricultural business, or

7.11.b

the carrying on of any forestry business, or otherwise for the purposes of
forestry.

7.12

Where  this subsection  applies,  subsection (4) (d)  has effect as if—

7.12.a

(where relevant) the reference to the land at the site from which the
aggregate was won included P’s other land, and

7.12.b

the words “by virtue of it being used for a purpose connected with winning
aggregate or other minerals from that site” were omitted.

###### Persons liable to pay tax

8

8.1

The persons liable to pay the tax charged on a quantity of taxable aggregate
are the persons responsible for subjecting it to commercial exploitation.

8.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , the persons responsible are each of the
following—

8.2.a

in a case of the commercial exploitation of a quantity of aggregate by its
removal from its originating site or from a connected site, the operator of
that site,

8.2.b

in a case of the commercial exploitation of a quantity of aggregate by its
removal from a site falling within  section 7 (2) (c) , the operator of the
site and (if different) the owner of the aggregate at the time when the
removal takes place,

8.2.c

in a case of the commercial exploitation of a quantity of aggregate at a time
when it is not on its originating site or a connected site—

8.2.c.i

by its becoming the subject of any agreement to supply it, or

8.2.c.ii

by its being used at such a time for construction purposes,

the person agreeing to supply it or using it for construction purposes,

8.2.d

in a case of the commercial exploitation of a quantity of aggregate at a time
when it is on its originating site or a connected site—

8.2.d.i

by its becoming the subject of any agreement to supply it, or

8.2.d.ii

by its being used at such a time for construction purposes,

the person mentioned in  paragraph (c)  and (if different) the operator of
that site,

8.2.e

in a case of the commercial exploitation of a quantity of aggregate by its
being mixed with any material or substance at its originating site or a
connected site, the owner of the aggregate at the time when the mixing takes
place and (if different) the operator of the site,

8.2.f

in a case of the commercial exploitation of a quantity of aggregate by its
being mixed with any material or substance at premises that are not comprised
in its originating site or a connected site, the owner of the aggregate at the
time when the mixing takes place and the occupier of the premises where it
takes place.

8.3

A person who is responsible for subjecting a quantity of aggregate to
exploitation is not responsible for subjecting it to commercial exploitation
unless that takes place in the course or furtherance of a business carried on
by that person (and for the purposes of this subsection “ business ” includes
any activity of the Scottish Administration, a Minister of the Crown, local
authority or charity).

8.4

In  this section  “ connected site ”, in relation to any quantity of
aggregate, means any site that falls within  section 7 (2) (b)  in relation to
that quantity of aggregate.

8.5

Where—

8.5.a

the commercial exploitation of a quantity of aggregate occurs by its becoming
the subject of an agreement to supply it, and

8.5.b

a person (“ P ”) is one of multiple persons involved in the chain of supply
that arises from that original agreement (whether or not the chain of supply
involves further agreements between the persons involved),

P is liable to pay the total amount of tax chargeable on the quantity of
aggregate as a result of the original agreement, unless P has acquired the
quantity of aggregate from a person who, at the time of P’s acquisition of the
aggregate, is registered.

8.6

Where by virtue of this section more than one person is charged with the tax,
their liabilities under this Part as persons charged with the tax are joint
and several.

##### Sites and site operators

###### Originating sites

9

9.1

In this Part references to the originating site of any aggregate are
references—

9.1.a

in the case of aggregate which has been won from the seabed of the Scottish
marine area, to the site where it is first landed after being won,

9.1.b

in the case of aggregate which results from the application of an excepted
process to any aggregate, to the site where that process was applied,

9.1.c

in any other case, to the site from which the aggregate was won or (as the
case may be) from which it was most recently won.

9.2

Where any aggregate—

9.2.a

is on its originating site on the date on which this section comes into force,
and

9.2.b

has been mixed before that date with aggregate from a different originating
site,

the originating site of all the aggregate comprised in the mixture is, for the
purposes of this Part, the site where the mixture is situated on the date on
which this section comes into force.

###### Operators of sites

10

10.1

For the purposes of this Part, the operators of a site are each of the
following—

10.1.a

the person who occupies the site, and

10.1.b

if a person other than the occupier exercises control over aggregate on that
site, that other person.

10.2

In  subsection (1) (b) , the reference to exercising control over aggregate on
a site is a reference to doing any of the following—

10.2.a

winning aggregate from land at that site,

10.2.b

carrying out any excepted process at that site,

10.2.c

storing aggregate at that site.

#### Calculation of tax

##### Amount of tax

###### Weight of aggregate

11

11.1

The Scottish Ministers may make regulations for determining the weight of any
aggregate for the purposes of calculating the tax.

11.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may—

11.2.a

specify rules for determining the weight,

11.2.b

authorise rules for determining the weight to be specified by Revenue Scotland
in a manner set out in the regulations, or

11.2.c

authorise rules for determining the weight to be agreed between the person
liable to pay the tax and a person designated by Revenue Scotland.

11.3

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may, in particular, provide for the rules
specified or authorised under the regulations to include rules about—

11.3.a

the method by which the weight is to be determined,

11.3.b

the time by reference to which the weight is to be determined,

11.3.c

the discounting of constituent ingredients (such as water).

11.4

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision that rules specified
by virtue of  subsection (2) (b) —

11.4.a

are to have effect only in such cases as may be described in the rules, and

11.4.b

are not to have effect in particular cases unless Revenue Scotland is
satisfied that such conditions as may be set out in the rules are met in those
cases.

11.5

Conditions for which provision is made by virtue of  subsection (4) (b)  may
be framed by reference to such factors as Revenue Scotland considers
appropriate (such as the consent, in a particular case, of a person designated
by Revenue Scotland).

11.6

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision that where—

11.6.a

rules are agreed as mentioned in  subsection (2) (c) , and

11.6.b

Revenue Scotland believes that they should no longer be applied (whether
because they do not give an accurate indication of the weight or are not being
fully observed or for some other reason),

Revenue Scotland may direct that the agreed rules are no longer to have
effect.

###### Rate of tax

12

12.1

The amount of tax charged on taxable aggregate is calculated by multiplying
the applicable rate of tax by the weight in tonnes of the taxable aggregate.

12.2

The amount of tax charged on a part of a tonne of aggregate is to be the
proportionately reduced amount.

12.3

The Scottish Ministers may make regulations specifying the applicable rate (or
rates) of tax for the purposes of this section.

##### Repayments

###### Repayments of overpaid tax

13

13.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

13.2

In section 108 (claim for repayment if order changing tax basis not approved)—

13.2.a

in subsection (1), in each place where it occurs, for “order” substitute
“instrument” ,

13.2.b

in subsection (2), in the closing words, for “order” substitute  “instrument”
,

13.2.c

in subsection (3)—

13.2.c.i

in the opening words, for “order”, in each place where it occurs, substitute
“instrument” ,

13.2.c.ii

in the table, in the heading of column 1, for “ orders ” substitute  “
instruments ” ,

13.2.c.iii

at the end of the table, insert—

    Under the AT(S) Act 2024— Section 58(2)(b) of that Act regulations under
section 12(3)

,

13.2.d

in subsection (4), for “order” substitute  “instrument” .

13.3

The section title of section 108 becomes  “ Claim for repayment if instrument
changing tax basis not approved ” .

###### Adjustment of contracts

14

14.1

This section applies where—

14.1.a

an agreement to supply a quantity of taxable aggregate to any person has been
entered into,

14.1.b

a payment falls to be made under the agreement relating to the aggregate, and

14.1.c

after entering into the agreement there is a change to the tax chargeable in
relation to the supply of the aggregate referred to in the agreement.

14.2

The amount of any payment mentioned in  subsection (1) (b)  is to be adjusted
(unless the agreement provides otherwise) so as to secure that the cost of
discharging the liability to pay the tax, to the extent that it would
otherwise have been borne by the supplier, is borne by the person making the
payment.

14.3

The reference in  subsection (1) (c)  to a change in the tax chargeable is a
reference to a change—

14.3.a

to or from no tax being chargeable, or

14.3.b

in the amount of tax chargeable.

##### Credits

###### Tax credits

15

15.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations provide that where—

15.1.a

a charge to tax has arisen on any quantity of aggregate, and

15.1.b

specified conditions are fulfilled,

a person liable to pay the tax is to be entitled to credit of such an amount
as is determined in accordance with specified rules.

15.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision for determining the
amount of credit (including provision for limiting it).

15.3

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision in relation to cases
where any quantity of taxable aggregate is moved outwith Scotland to a place
in the rest of the United Kingdom, or to United Kingdom waters, in the form of
aggregate.

15.4

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision in relation to cases
where any quantity of taxable aggregate is exported outwith the United Kingdom
from a place in Scotland, in the form of aggregate.

15.5

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision in relation to cases
where any quantity of taxable aggregate has an excepted process applied to it.

15.6

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision in relation to cases
where any quantity of taxable aggregate is used in a specified industrial or
agricultural process.

15.7

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision in relation to cases
where any quantity of taxable aggregate is disposed of (by dumping or
otherwise) in such a manner, not constituting its use for construction
purposes, as may be specified.

15.8

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include—

15.8.a

provision in relation to cases where the whole or part of a debt which is due
to the person liable to pay the tax is written off in the person’s accounts as
a bad debt, and

15.8.b

provision for determining whether, and to what extent, a debt is to be taken
to be bad for the purposes of paragraph (a).

15.9

In this section, “ specified ” means specified in the regulations.

###### Tax credits: further provision

16

16.1

Regulations under  section 15 (1)  may make provision as to the manner in
which a person is to benefit from credit, and may, in particular, make
provision—

16.1.a

that a person is to be entitled to credit by reference to accounting periods,

16.1.b

that a person is to be entitled to deduct an amount equal to the person's
total credit for an accounting period from the total amount of tax due from
the person for the period,

16.1.c

that if no tax is due from a person for an accounting period but the person is
entitled to credit for the period, the amount of the credit is to be paid to
the person by Revenue Scotland,

16.1.d

that if the amount of credit to which a person is entitled for an accounting
period exceeds the amount of tax due from the person for the period, an amount
equal to the excess is to be paid to the person by Revenue Scotland,

16.1.e

for the whole or part of any credit to be held over to be credited for a
subsequent accounting period,

16.1.f

as to the manner in which a person who has ceased to be registrable is to
benefit from credit.

16.2

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1) (c)  or  (d)  may provide that
where at the end of an accounting period an amount is due to a person who has
failed to submit returns for an earlier period as required by this Act,
Revenue Scotland may withhold payment of the amount until the person has
complied with that requirement.

16.3

Regulations made by virtue of  subsection (1) (e)  may—

16.3.a

provide for credit to be held over either on the person's application or in
accordance with directions given by Revenue Scotland from time to time, and

16.3.b

allow directions to be given generally or with regard to particular cases.

16.4

Regulations under  section 15 (1)  may provide that—

16.4.a

no benefit is to be conferred in respect of credit except on a claim made in
such manner and at such time as may be determined by or under regulations,

16.4.b

payment in respect of credit is to be made subject to such conditions (if any)
as Revenue Scotland thinks fit to impose, including conditions as to repayment
in specified circumstances,

16.4.c

deduction in respect of credit is to be made subject to such conditions (if
any) as Revenue Scotland thinks fit to impose, including conditions as to the
payment to Revenue Scotland, in specified circumstances, of an amount
representing the whole or part of the amount deducted.

16.5

Regulations under  section 15 (1)  may require a claim by a person to be made
in a return required by regulations under  section 23 .

16.6

Regulations under  section 15 (1)  may provide for section 107 of the Revenue
Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 (claim for relief for overpaid tax etc.) to
apply, with or without modifications, to a claim under  this section  by a
person who has ceased to be registrable as it applies to a claim under that
section.

#### Administration

##### Registration

###### Scottish aggregates tax register

17

17.1

Revenue Scotland must keep a register (to be known as the Scottish aggregates
tax register) containing such information as Revenue Scotland considers is
required for the purposes of the collection and management of the tax.

17.2

The register is to be kept in the form that Revenue Scotland considers
appropriate.

17.3

Revenue Scotland must make any changes to the register that appear to Revenue
Scotland to be required for the purpose of keeping the register up to date.

17.4

Revenue Scotland may publish, in the manner it considers appropriate—

17.4.a

information derived from the register, and

17.4.b

information falling within any of the descriptions set out in  subsection (5)
.

17.5

The information is—

17.5.a

the names and trading names (if different) of registered persons,

17.5.b

the registration numbers assigned to those persons in the register,

17.5.c

the addresses, co-ordinates and boundary plans of any sites or other premises
at which those persons carry on business, and the type of material produced at
each site or premises,

17.5.d

the fact (where it is the case) that the registered person is a body corporate
which by virtue of  section 29  is treated as a member of a group,

17.5.e

where paragraph (d) applies—

17.5.e.i

the names of the other bodies corporate treated under that section as members
of the group,

17.5.e.ii

the addresses, co-ordinates and boundary plans of any sites or other premises
at which those other bodies carry on business, and the type of material
produced at each site or premises,

17.5.f

the names of tax representatives against the names of the non-resident
taxpayers of whom they are the representatives,

17.5.g

the information mentioned in  paragraphs (a)  to  (c)  in respect of persons
who have notified Revenue Scotland under  section 20  of the production of
exempt aggregate, and

17.5.h

such other information as Revenue Scotland considers appropriate.

17.6

Information may be published in accordance with  subsection (4)  despite any
obligation not to disclose the information that would otherwise apply which is
contained in—

17.6.a

an Act of the Scottish Parliament,

17.6.b

an instrument made under an Act of the Scottish Parliament, or

17.6.c

any other enactment which, if contained in an Act of the Scottish Parliament,
would be within the legislative competence of the Parliament.

###### Duty to register for tax

18

18.1

A person who—

18.1.a

carries out taxable activities, and

18.1.b

is not registered,

is liable to be registered.

18.2

For the purposes of this section, a person carries out taxable activities if
the person is responsible for subjecting a quantity of aggregate to commercial
exploitation.

18.3

Where—

18.3.a

a person at any time—

18.3.a.i

forms the intention of carrying out taxable activities, or

18.3.a.ii

carries out taxable activities, and

18.3.b

the person is not registered,

the person must notify Revenue Scotland at whichever is the earliest time of
paragraph (a) (i)  or  (ii) .

18.4

Where a person is liable to be registered by virtue of  subsection (1) ,
Revenue Scotland may register the person with effect from the time when the
person begins to carry out taxable activities (whether or not the person
notifies Revenue Scotland under  subsection (3) ).

18.5

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations provide for persons carrying out
taxable activities to be, to such extent and subject to such conditions or
restrictions as may be prescribed in the regulations, either—

18.5.a

exempt from the requirement to be registered under this section, or

18.5.b

exempt from other requirements imposed by or under this Part on registrable
persons.

18.6

Regulations under  subsection (5)  may, in relation to persons who are exempt
from the requirement to be registered under  this section , include provision—

18.6.a

requiring those persons to keep any records that may be needed to enable those
persons to comply with a requirement to notify Revenue Scotland of the
person's intention—

18.6.a.i

to carry out taxable activities, or

18.6.a.ii

to cease to carry out taxable activities,

18.6.b

requiring those persons to preserve those records until a day specified by the
Scottish Ministers in the regulations (and different days may be specified for
different purposes under this paragraph),

18.6.c

specifying that the records required to be kept and preserved under
paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  do, or do not, include records described in the
regulations, and

18.6.d

specifying supporting documents (including accounts, books, deeds, contracts,
vouchers and receipts) that are required to be kept,

18.6.e

referring to things specified in a notice published by Revenue Scotland in
accordance with the regulations (and not withdrawn by a subsequent notice).

18.7

References in this Part to a registrable person are to a person who—

18.7.a

is registered under this section, or

18.7.b

is liable to be registered under this section.

18.8

Where any two or more bodies corporate are treated as members of the same
group by virtue of  section 29  they must be registered together as one person
in the name of the representative member.

###### Cancellation of registration for tax

19

19.1

A person who at any time ceases to have the intention of carrying out taxable
activities must notify Revenue Scotland of that fact.

19.2

For the purposes of  subsection (1) , a person carries out taxable activities
if the person is responsible for subjecting a quantity of aggregate to
commercial exploitation.

19.3

Where Revenue Scotland is satisfied that a person has ceased to carry out
taxable activities it may cancel the person's registration with effect from
the earliest practicable time after the person ceased to carry out taxable
activities (whether or not the person notifies Revenue Scotland under
subsection (1) ).

19.4

Where—

19.4.a

a person notifies Revenue Scotland under  subsection (1) , or is exempted from
the requirement to be registered by virtue of regulations under  section 18
(5) ,

19.4.b

Revenue Scotland is satisfied that the person will not carry out taxable
activities,

19.4.c

Revenue Scotland is satisfied that no tax which the person is liable to pay is
unpaid,

19.4.d

Revenue Scotland is satisfied that no credit to which the person is entitled
under regulations made under  section 15  is outstanding, and

19.4.e

subsections (5)  and (6) do not apply,

Revenue Scotland must cancel the person's registration with effect from the
earliest practicable time after the person ceases to carry out taxable
activities.

19.5

Where—

19.5.a

a person notifies Revenue Scotland under  subsection (1) , and

19.5.b

Revenue Scotland is satisfied that the person has not carried out, is not
carrying out, and will not carry out, taxable activities,

Revenue Scotland must cancel the person's registration with effect from the
date of registration.

19.6

Where a registered person becomes exempted from the requirement to be
registered by virtue of regulations under  section 18 (5) , Revenue Scotland
may cancel the person’s registration with effect from the time when the person
became so exempted or from such later time as Revenue Scotland considers
appropriate.

19.7

Where—

19.7.a

a registered person becomes exempted from the requirement to be registered by
virtue of regulations under  section 18 (5) , and

19.7.b

Revenue Scotland is satisfied that the person has been so exempted at all
times since being registered,

Revenue Scotland must cancel the person’s registration with effect from the
date of registration.

###### Duty to notify Revenue Scotland of production of exempt aggregate

20

An unregistered person who—

20.a

would be required to be registered for the purposes of the tax but for an
exemption by virtue of regulations under  section 18 (5) , or

20.b

has formed the intention of carrying out activities that would be taxable
activities but for such an exemption,

must, in such cases or circumstances as may be prescribed in regulations made
by the Scottish Ministers, notify Revenue Scotland of that fact.

###### Registration by Revenue Scotland

21

21.1

Where it appears to Revenue Scotland that any person is operating or using any
premises, or intends to operate or use any premises, for any of the purposes
listed in  subsection (2) , it may register those premises, in any entry in
the register relating to that person and under that person’s name, as a
registered site.

21.2

The purposes are—

21.2.a

winning any aggregate,

21.2.b

applying an excepted process to any aggregate,

21.2.c

mixing, otherwise than in permitted circumstances (see  section 7 (7) ), any
aggregate with any material or substance (other than water),

21.2.d

storing any aggregate, or

21.2.e

the first landing in Scotland of aggregate won from the seabed of the Scottish
marine area or from the seabed of United Kingdom waters.

21.3

Where any premises are registered in accordance with  subsection (1)  as a
registered site, the particulars included in the register must set out, as the
boundaries of the site, such boundaries as appear to Revenue Scotland best to
secure that avoidance of tax is not facilitated by the registration of any
part of any premises that is not used or operated for any of the purposes
listed in  subsection (2) .

21.4

Where any entry in the register at any time specifies that any premises
registered under a person’s name as a registered site are to be taken to be
the originating site of—

21.4.a

any aggregate resulting from the carrying out of any excepted process there,
or

21.4.b

any aggregate won or landed there,

any question for the purposes of this Part as to the boundaries at that time
of the originating site of any such aggregate is to be conclusively determined
in accordance with that entry.

###### Registration: further provision

22

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision—

22.a

specifying the period within which a notification by virtue of  section 18 (3)
,  19 (1)  or  20  is to be made,

22.b

specifying the form and content of a notification under any of those sections,

22.c

requiring a person who has made a notification under any of those sections to
notify Revenue Scotland—

22.c.i

of any information contained in or provided in connection with the
notification which has become inaccurate,

22.c.ii

of any other change in circumstances,

22.d

requiring the correction of entries in the register.

##### Tax returns and record-keeping

###### Duty to make returns and pay tax

23

23.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations provide that a registrable person
must—

23.1.a

account for tax by reference to such periods (“accounting periods”) as may be
specified,

23.1.b

make returns in relation to such accounting periods,

23.1.c

pay tax at such times and in such manner as may be specified.

23.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision—

23.2.a

for the tax falling in accordance with the regulations to be accounted for by
reference to one accounting period to be treated in specified circumstances,
and for specified purposes, as tax due for a different period,

23.2.b

for the correction of errors made when accounting for the tax by reference to
any period,

23.2.c

for consequential adjustments required in connection with such errors,

23.2.d

for a person, for purposes connected with the making of any such consequential
adjustment, to be required to provide to any specified person, or to retain, a
document in the specified form containing specified particulars of the matters
to which the adjustment relates,

23.2.e

enabling Revenue Scotland, in such cases as it considers appropriate, to
dispense with or relax a requirement imposed by regulations made by virtue of
paragraph (d) ,

23.2.f

for the amount of tax which, in accordance with the regulations, is treated as
due for a later period than that in which it should have been accounted for,
to be treated as increased by an amount representing interest at the rate
applicable under section 220 of the Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014
(rates of interest) for such period as may be determined in accordance with
the regulations.

23.3

In this section “ specified ” means specified in the regulations.

###### Form and content of returns

24

24.1

A return under this Part must—

24.1.a

be in the form specified by Revenue Scotland,

24.1.b

contain information specified by Revenue Scotland, and

24.1.c

be made in a manner specified by Revenue Scotland.

24.2

Revenue Scotland may specify different forms, information and manners of
return for different kinds of return.

24.3

A return is treated as containing any information provided by the person
making it for the purpose of completing the return.

24.4

Subsections (1)  and  (2)  are subject to any different provision made in or
under  this Part .

###### Communications from taxpayers to Revenue Scotland

25

25.1

Any notice, application or other thing that a person is required or permitted
by provision made in or under  this Part  to give to Revenue Scotland must
comply with the requirements set out in  subsection (2) .

25.2

The requirements are that the thing must—

25.2.a

be in the form specified by Revenue Scotland,

25.2.b

contain the information specified by Revenue Scotland, and

25.2.c

be made in the manner specified by Revenue Scotland.

25.3

Subsections (1)  and  (2)  are subject to any different provision made in or
under  this Part .

##### Non-resident taxpayers

###### Appointment of tax representatives

26

26.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision for securing that
every non-resident taxpayer, for the purposes of paying the tax, appoints a
person resident in the United Kingdom to act as the taxpayer’s tax
representative.

26.2

In this Part a “ non-resident taxpayer ” means a person who—

26.2.a

is or is required to be registered for the purposes of the tax, or would be so
required but for an exemption by virtue of regulations under  section 18 (5) ,
and

26.2.b

is not resident in the United Kingdom.

26.3

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision—

26.3.a

requiring notification to be given to Revenue Scotland where a person becomes
a non-resident taxpayer,

26.3.b

requiring the appointment of tax representatives by non-resident taxpayers,

26.3.c

for the appointment of a person as a tax representative to take effect only
where the person is approved by Revenue Scotland,

26.3.d

requiring a request to be made to Revenue Scotland for such an appointment,

26.3.e

authorising Revenue Scotland to give a direction requiring the replacement of
a tax representative,

26.3.f

authorising Revenue Scotland to give a direction requiring a person specified
in the direction to be treated as the appointed tax representative of a non-
resident taxpayer so specified,

26.3.g

about the circumstances in which a person ceases to be a tax representative
and about the withdrawal by Revenue Scotland of its approval of a tax
representative,

26.3.h

enabling a tax representative to act on behalf of the person for whom the
representative is the tax representative through an agent of the
representative,

26.3.i

for the purposes of any provision made by virtue of  paragraphs (a)  to  (h)
regulating the procedure to be followed in any case and imposing requirements
as to the information and other particulars to be provided to Revenue
Scotland,

26.3.j

as to the time at which things done under or for the purposes of the
regulations are to take effect.

###### Effect of appointment of tax representatives

27

27.1

The tax representative of a non-resident taxpayer is entitled to act on the
non-resident taxpayer’s behalf for the purposes of any provision made by or
under this Part.

27.2

The tax representative of a non-resident taxpayer must, except to such extent
as the Scottish Ministers by regulations provide otherwise, secure the non-
resident taxpayer’s compliance with any requirements in relation to the tax
imposed under—

27.2.a

this Act or any regulations made under this Act, or

27.2.b

the Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 or any orders or regulations made
under that Act,

(including any requirements arising before that person became the non-resident
taxpayer’s tax representative).

27.3

A person who is or has been the tax representative of a non-resident taxpayer
is personally liable—

27.3.a

in respect of any failure while the person is or was the non-resident
taxpayer’s tax representative to secure compliance with any requirements
arising by or under this Part, and

27.3.b

in respect of anything done in the course of, or for purposes connected with,
acting on the non-resident taxpayer’s behalf, as if the requirements arising
by or under this Part were imposed jointly and severally on the tax
representative and the non-resident taxpayer.

27.4

A tax representative is not liable by virtue of this section to be registered
for the tax.

27.5

A non-resident taxpayer is personally liable in respect of any tax due as a
consequence of fraud or error by the taxpayer’s tax representative.

###### Definition of “business premises” to exclude premises of tax representatives

28

28.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

28.2

In section 141 (power to inspect business premises)—

28.2.a

after subsection (3) insert—

28.2.a.3A

In this Chapter “business premises”—

28.2.a.3A.a

in relation to a person, means premises (or any part of premises) that a
designated officer has reason to believe are (or is) used in connection with
the carrying on of a business by or on behalf of the person, but

28.2.a.3A.b

in relation to a person liable to pax tax under the AT(S) Act 2024, does not
include the premises of any tax representative within the meaning of that Act.

28.2.a.3B

Subsection (3A)(b) does not prevent tax representatives, or any category of
tax representatives, from being specified under section 142 as involved third
parties for the purposes of that section.

,

28.2.b

in subsection (4), the definition of “business premises” is repealed.

##### Special cases

###### Groups of companies

29

29.1

Where any bodies corporate are treated as members of a group by virtue of this
section, for the purposes of this Part—

29.1.a

any liability of a member of the group to pay tax is to be taken to be a
liability of the representative member,

29.1.b

the representative member is to be taken to carry out any taxable activities
which a member of the group would carry out (apart from  this section ) by
virtue of  section 18 (2) ,

29.1.c

all members of the group are jointly and severally liable for any tax due from
the representative member.

29.2

Two or more bodies corporate are eligible to be treated as members of a group
if the condition mentioned in  subsection (3)  is fulfilled and—

29.2.a

one of them controls each of the others,

29.2.b

one person (whether a body corporate or an individual) controls them all, or

29.2.c

two or more individuals carrying on a business in partnership control them
all.

29.3

The condition is that the prospective representative member has an established
place of business in the United Kingdom.

29.4

Two or more bodies corporate eligible to be treated as members of a group may
apply to Revenue Scotland to be so treated.

29.5

An application under  subsection (4)  must set out which of the bodies
corporate is to be the representative member.

29.6

Where an application referred to in  subsection (4)  is made—

29.6.a

the bodies corporate are to be treated as a group from the beginning of an
accounting period, and

29.6.b

the body corporate set out in the application is to be the representative
member,

unless Revenue Scotland refuses the application.

29.7

Where any bodies corporate are treated as members of a group, an application
may be made to Revenue Scotland to the effect that—

29.7.a

a further body eligible to be treated as a member of the group is to be
included among the bodies treated in that way,

29.7.b

a body corporate is to be excluded from the bodies so treated,

29.7.c

another member of the group is to be substituted as the representative member,
or

29.7.d

the bodies corporate are no longer to be treated as members of a group.

29.8

Where an application referred to in subsection (7) is made, Revenue Scotland
may—

29.8.a

grant the application with effect from such time as Revenue Scotland specifies
by written notice to the members of the group, or

29.8.b

refuse the application.

29.9

Revenue Scotland may refuse an application under  subsection (4)  or  (7)
only if it appears to it necessary to do so for the protection of the revenue.

29.10

An application under  this section  with respect to any bodies corporate—

29.10.a

must be made by one of those bodies or by the person controlling them, and

29.10.b

must be made—

29.10.b.i

not less than 90 days before the date from which it is to take effect, or

29.10.b.ii

at such later time as Revenue Scotland may allow.

29.11

For the purposes of  this section  and  section 32 —

29.11.a

a body corporate is to be taken to control another body corporate if—

29.11.a.i

it may, by virtue of an enactment, control that body's activities, or

29.11.a.ii

it is that body's holding company within the meaning of section 1159 and
schedule 6 of the Companies Act 2006 (meaning of “subsidiary” etc),

29.11.b

an individual is or individuals are to be taken to control a body corporate if
the individual or individuals would be that body's holding company within the
meaning of the provisions mentioned in  paragraph (a) (ii) , were the
individual or individuals a company.

###### Notification of cessation of eligibility for group treatment or of having place of business in UK

30

30.1

Where—

30.1.a

two or more bodies corporate are treated as members of a group for the
purposes of this Part, and

30.1.b

any of those bodies ceases to be eligible to be so treated,

the body corporate which ceases to be so eligible must notify Revenue Scotland
immediately of that fact.

30.2

A body corporate which is designated as representative member in relation to
any other bodies corporate must not cease to have an established place of
business in the United Kingdom without first notifying Revenue Scotland of
that fact.

###### Group treatment: change to application or notification

31

A body corporate which has made—

31.a

an application under section 29(4) or (7), or

31.b

a notification under section 30(1) or (2),

must notify Revenue Scotland immediately if any information contained in or
provided in connection with that application or notification becomes
inaccurate.

###### Group treatment: substitution and termination

32

32.1

Subsection (2)  applies where—

32.1.a

a body corporate ceases as from any time to be treated as a member of a group,

32.1.b

immediately before that time, that body was the representative member,

32.1.c

there are two or more other bodies corporate which continue after that time to
be treated as members of the group, and

32.1.d

no application under  section 29 (7) (c)  in respect of any those other
members of the group has been granted by Revenue Scotland.

32.2

Revenue Scotland must, by notice to whichever of the bodies corporate
mentioned in  subsection (1) (c)  as it thinks fit, substitute that body
corporate as the representative member, as from the time mentioned in
subsection (1) (a) .

32.3

Where—

32.3.a

a body corporate is treated as a member of a group as being controlled by any
person, and

32.3.b

it appears to Revenue Scotland that it has ceased to be so controlled,

Revenue Scotland must, by notice given to that person, terminate that
treatment from such date as may be specified in the notice.

32.4

If it appears to Revenue Scotland necessary to do so for the protection of the
revenue, it may, by notice given to any body corporate that is treated as a
member of a group and to the representative member, terminate that treatment
from such time as may be specified in the notice.

32.5

The time specified in a notice under  subsection (4)  must not be a time
before the day on which the notice is given to the representative member.

###### Partnerships and unincorporated bodies etc.

33

33.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision applying the
requirements of  this Part  to cases where a business is carried on—

33.1.a

in partnership, or

33.1.b

by an unincorporated body.

33.2

The registration under this Part of a partnership or an unincorporated body
may be in the name of the firm or body concerned.

33.3

In determining whether taxable activities are carried out by an unincorporated
body, no account is to be taken of any change in its members.

33.4

The registration under this Part of a body corporate carrying on a business in
several divisions may be in the names of those divisions if—

33.4.a

the body corporate requests it, and

33.4.b

Revenue Scotland considers it appropriate.

###### Bankruptcy etc.

34

34.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations, in relation to a person carrying on
a business in a manner described in  subsection (2) , make provision—

34.1.a

requiring the person carrying on the business to inform Revenue Scotland of
the fact that the person is carrying on the business and of the event that has
led to that person carrying it on,

34.1.b

allowing the person carrying on the business to be treated, for the duration
of a period specified in the regulations, as if that person were the other
person mentioned in  subsection (2) ,

34.1.c

for securing continuity in the application of this Part where the person
carrying on the business is so treated.

34.2

The persons are—

34.2.a

a person carrying on the business of another person who has—

34.2.a.i

died,

34.2.a.ii

become bankrupt, or

34.2.a.iii

become incapacitated,

34.2.b

a person carrying on the business of another person whose estate has been
sequestrated,

34.2.c

a person carrying on the business of another person which is in liquidation,
receivership or administration.

###### Transfer of business as a going concern

35

35.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision for securing
continuity in the application of this Part in cases where a business carried
on by a person is transferred to another person as a going concern.

35.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision—

35.2.a

requiring the transferor to inform Revenue Scotland of the transfer,

35.2.b

providing for liabilities and duties under this Part of the transferor to
become, to such extent as may be provided in the regulations, liabilities and
duties of the transferee,

35.2.c

providing for any right of either of them to repayment or credit in respect of
tax to be satisfied by making a repayment or allowing a credit to the other,

35.2.d

providing that no such provision as is mentioned in paragraph (b) or (c) is to
have effect in relation to any transferor and transferee unless an application
to that effect has been made by them under the regulations.

##### Provision of security

###### Security required by individual direction

36

36.1

Revenue Scotland may, if it appears to it necessary to do so for the
protection of the revenue, issue a direction—

36.1.a

requiring a person liable to pay tax or a tax representative to provide any
security that Revenue Scotland considers appropriate,

36.1.b

specifying the amount of security that a person liable to pay tax is required
to provide to secure the approval of the appointment of a tax representative
(see  section 26 ).

36.2

Revenue Scotland—

36.2.a

may attach to a direction under this section any conditions it thinks fit, and

36.2.b

may vary or revoke an earlier direction or the conditions attached to it.

36.3

A person is not required to comply with a direction under this section unless
Revenue Scotland has—

36.3.a

served notice of the direction on the person, or

36.3.b

taken all such other steps as appear to Revenue Scotland to be reasonable for
bringing the direction to the person's attention.

36.4

If Revenue Scotland issues a direction under  subsection (1) (a)  to a person
liable to pay tax or a tax representative, that person must provide the
required security to Revenue Scotland by the date specified by Revenue
Scotland.

36.5

If Revenue Scotland issues a direction under  subsection (1) (b)  to a person
liable to pay tax—

36.5.a

in a case where the direction specifies an amount of security that is
different to the amount that the person would be required to provide according
to a general direction under  section 37 , the direction under  this section
prevails, and

36.5.b

in a case where the effect of the direction is that the person must provide
security or additional security to ensure that the appointment of a tax
representative continues to have effect, that person must provide the security
or additional security to Revenue Scotland by the date specified by Revenue
Scotland.

36.6

In this Part “ security ” means security for the payment of any amount of the
tax which is or may become due from a person liable to pay the tax (including
any penalty or interest that is recoverable as if it were an amount of the
tax).

###### Security required by general direction

37

37.1

Revenue Scotland may, if it appears to it necessary to do so for the
protection of the revenue, issue a direction specifying the amount of
security, or a method for determining the amount of security, that taxable
persons must provide to Revenue Scotland to secure the approval of the
appointment of a tax representative (see  section 26 ).

37.2

A direction under this section—

37.2.a

applies generally to persons liable to pay tax,

37.2.b

may specify any conditions for the provision of security that Revenue Scotland
thinks fit,

37.2.c

may vary or revoke an earlier direction, and

37.2.d

must be published by Revenue Scotland.

37.3

Subsection (4)  applies if—

37.3.a

a person liable to pay tax has appointed a tax representative, and

37.3.b

a direction issued under  this section  has the effect of requiring the person
liable to pay tax to provide security or additional security to ensure that
the appointment continues to have effect.

37.4

The person must provide the security or additional security to Revenue
Scotland by the date specified by Revenue Scotland.

##### Delegation of functions

###### Delegation of functions by Revenue Scotland

38

38.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

38.2

In section 4 (delegation of functions by Revenue Scotland)—

38.2.a

in subsection (1), after paragraph (b) insert—

38.2.a.c

any of its functions relating to Scottish aggregates tax to a person specified
in regulations by the Scottish Ministers (a “relevant person”).

,

38.2.b

in subsection (2)—

38.2.b.i

for “or to SEPA” substitute  “, SEPA or a relevant person” ,

38.2.b.ii

for “and SEPA” substitute  “, SEPA and a relevant person” ,

38.2.c

in subsection (8), in each place where the words occur, for “or SEPA”
substitute  “, SEPA or a relevant person” .

38.3

In section 254 (subordinate legislation), in subsection (3), before paragraph
(a) insert—

38.3.za

section 4(1)(c)

.

#### Penalties

##### Failure to make return

39

39.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

39.2

In section 159 (penalty for failure to make returns)—

39.2.a

in subsection (1), at the end of the table insert—

      3. Scottish aggregates tax Return under regulations made under section
23 of the AT(S) Act 2024.

,

39.2.b

in subsection (6), after “item 2” insert  “or 3” .

39.3

In the italic heading before section 164, after “ Scottish landfill tax”
insert “ and Scottish aggregates tax” .

39.4

In section 164 (Scottish landfill tax: first penalty for failure to make
return), in subsection (1), after “item 2” insert  “or 3” .

39.5

The section title of section 164 becomes  “ Scottish landfill tax and Scottish
aggregates tax: first penalty for failure to make return ” .

39.6

The section title of section 165 becomes  “ Scottish landfill tax and Scottish
aggregates tax: multiple failures to make return ” .

39.7

The section title of section 166 becomes  “Scottish landfill tax and Scottish
aggregates tax: 6 month penalty for failure to make return ” .

39.8

In section 167 (Scottish landfill tax: 12 month penalty for failure to make
return), in the section title, after “ Scottish landfill tax ” insert  “ and
Scottish aggregates tax ” .

##### Failure to pay tax

40

40.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

40.2

In section 168 (penalty for failure to pay tax)—

40.2.a

in subsection (1), at the end of the table insert—

      3. Scottish aggregates tax       Amount payable under regulations made
under section 23 of the AT(S) Act 2024.           Additional amount payable as
a result of an adjustment under section 66 of this Act.           Additional
amount payable as a result of an amendment under section 83 of this Act.
Additional amount payable as a result of an amendment under section 87 of this
Act.           Additional amount payable as a result of an amendment under
section 93 of this Act.           Amount assessed under section 95 of this Act
in the absence of a return.           Amount payable as a result of an
assessment under section 98 of this Act.           (a), (b), (c), (e) and (g)
The date by which the amount must be paid.       (d) and (f) The date falling
30 days after the date by which the amount must be paid.

,

40.2.b

in subsection (5), after “item 2” insert  “or 3” .

40.3

In the italic heading before section 170, after “ Scottish landfill tax ”
insert  “ and Scottish aggregates tax ” .

40.4

In section 170 (Scottish landfill tax: first penalty for failure to pay tax),
in subsection (1), after “item 2” insert  “or 3” .

40.5

The section title of section 170 becomes  “ Scottish landfill tax and Scottish
aggregates tax: first penalty for failure to pay tax ” .

40.6

The section title of section 171 becomes  “ Scottish landfill tax and Scottish
aggregates tax: penalties for multiple failures to pay tax ” .

40.7

The section title of section 172 becomes  “ Scottish landfill tax and Scottish
aggregates tax: 6 month penalty for failure to pay tax ” .

40.8

The section title of section 173 becomes  “ Scottish landfill tax and Scottish
aggregates tax: 12 month penalty for failure to pay tax ” .

##### Inaccuracies in taxpayer documents

41

41.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

41.2

In section 182 (penalty for inaccuracy in taxpayer document)—

41.2.a

in subsection (6), at the end of the table insert—

      3. Scottish aggregates tax       Return under regulations made under
section 23 of the AT(S) Act 2024.           Amended return under section 83 of
this Act.           Claim for repayment under section 106, 107 or 108 of this
Act.

,

41.2.b

in subsection (7), for “item 1 or 2” substitute  “any item” .

##### Failure to register for tax etc.

42

42.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

42.2

In section 209(1) (penalties for failure to register for tax etc.), for
paragraph (a) substitute—

42.2.a

P fails to comply with a requirement imposed by or under any of the following
provisions (“a relevant requirement”)—

42.2.a.i

section 22 or 23 of the LT(S) Act 2014 (registration and information required
to keep register up to date),

42.2.a.ii

section 18 of the AT(S) Act 2024 (duty to register for tax),

42.2.a.iv

section 22 of the AT(S) Act 2024 (registration: further provision),

.

42.3

In section 210(4) (amount of penalty for failure to register for tax etc.),
after “landfill tax” insert  “or Scottish aggregates tax” .

##### Failure to notify production of exempt aggregate

43

43.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

43.2

After section 216 insert—

########### Penalties relating solely to Scottish aggregates tax

############ Penalty for failure to notify Revenue Scotland of production of exempt aggregate: Scottish aggregates tax

43.2.216A

43.2.216A.1

This section applies to a person who fails to notify Revenue Scotland, under
regulations made under section 20 of the AT(S) Act 2024, of the person’s
production of exempt aggregate.

43.2.216A.2

The person is liable to a penalty of £1,000.

43.2.216A.3

Section 211 applies to a penalty under this section as it applies to a penalty
under section 209.

.

##### Failure to keep records of production of exempt aggregate

44

44.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

44.2

After section 216A (as inserted by section 43(2)) insert—

########### Failure to keep records of production of exempt aggregate: Scottish aggregates tax

44.2.216B

44.2.216B.1

This section applies to a person who fails to keep or preserve records or
documents as required under regulations made under section 18(5) of the AT(S)
Act 2024.

44.2.216B.2

The person is liable to a penalty of £1,000.

.

##### Failure to request approval of tax representative appointment

45

45.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

45.2

After section 216B (as inserted by  section 44 (2) ) insert—

########### Failure to request approval of tax representative appointment: Scottish aggregates tax

45.2.216C

45.2.216C.1

This section applies to a person who—

45.2.216C.1.a

becomes subject, in accordance with regulations under section 26(1) of the
AT(S) Act 2024, to an obligation to request Revenue Scotland’s approval for
the appointment of the person’s tax representative, but

45.2.216C.1.b

fails (with or without making the appointment) to make the request as required
by the regulations.

45.2.216C.2

The person is liable to a penalty of £10,000.

.

##### Failure to notify cessation of eligibility for group treatment or of having place of business in UK

46

46.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

46.2

After section 216C (as inserted by section 45(2)) insert—

########### Failure to notify cessation of eligibility for group treatment or of having place of business in UK: Scottish aggregates tax

46.2.216D

46.2.216D.1

This section applies to a person who—

46.2.216D.1.a

fails to notify Revenue Scotland, under section 30(1) of the AT(S) Act 2024,
that the person has ceased to be eligible to be treated as a member of a group
for the purposes of Part 1 of that Act, or

46.2.216D.1.b

fails to notify Revenue Scotland, under section 30(2) of the AT(S) Act 2024,
that the person has ceased to have an established place of business in the
United Kingdom.

46.2.216D.2

The person is liable to a penalty of £500.

.

##### Failure to notify change to group treatment application or notification

47

47.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

47.2

After section 216D (as inserted by section 46(2)) insert—

########### Failure to notify change to group treatment application or notification: Scottish aggregates tax

47.2.216E

47.2.216E.1

This section applies to a person who fails to comply with  section 31  of the
AT(S) Act 2024.

47.2.216E.2

The person is liable to a penalty of £250.

.

##### Failure to provide security

48

48.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

48.2

After section 216E (as inserted by section 47(2)) insert—

########### Penalty for failure to provide security: Scottish aggregates tax

48.2.216F

48.2.216F.1

This section applies to a person who fails to comply with a requirement by
Revenue Scotland under section 36 or 37 of the AT(S) Act 2024 to provide
security for the payment of Scottish aggregates tax.

48.2.216F.2

The person is liable to a penalty of £20,000.

.

##### General provisions for penalties relating to Scottish aggregates tax

49

49.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

49.2

After section 216F (as inserted by section 48(2)) insert—

########### Reasonable excuse for failures under Chapter 5A

49.2.216G

49.2.216G.1

If a person (“ P ”) satisfies Revenue Scotland or (on appeal) the tribunal
that there is a reasonable excuse for a failure to comply with a requirement
imposed by or under the AT(S) Act 2024 as described in section 216A(1),
216B(1), 216C(1), 216D(1), 216E(1) or 216F(1), liability to a penalty does not
arise in relation to that failure.

49.2.216G.2

For the purposes of subsection (1)—

49.2.216G.2.a

an insufficiency of funds is not a reasonable excuse unless attributable to
events outside P's control,

49.2.216G.2.b

where P relies on any other person to do anything, that is not a reasonable
excuse unless P took reasonable care to avoid the failure, and

49.2.216G.2.c

where P had a reasonable excuse for the failure but the excuse has ceased, P
is to be treated as having continued to have the excuse if the failure is
remedied without unreasonable delay after the excuse ceased.

########### Assessment of penalties under Chapter 5A

49.2.216H

49.2.216H.1

If a person becomes liable to a penalty under this Chapter, Revenue Scotland
must—

49.2.216H.1.a

assess the penalty, and

49.2.216H.1.b

notify the person.

49.2.216H.2

A penalty under this Chapter must be paid before the end of the period of 30
days beginning with the day on which the notification of the penalty is
issued.

49.2.216H.3

An assessment of a penalty under this Chapter—

49.2.216H.3.a

is to be treated for enforcement purposes as an assessment to tax, and

49.2.216H.3.b

may be combined with an assessment to tax.

49.2.216H.4

An assessment of a penalty under this Chapter must be made within the period
of 12 months beginning with whichever is the later of—

49.2.216H.4.a

the date on which the person became liable to the penalty, or

49.2.216H.4.b

the date on which Revenue Scotland first became aware of the person’s
liability to the penalty.

########### Power to change penalty provisions in Chapter 5A

49.2.216I

49.2.216I.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision (or further
provision) about penalties under this Chapter.

49.2.216I.2

Provision under subsection (1) includes provision—

49.2.216I.2.a

about the circumstances in which a penalty is payable,

49.2.216I.2.b

about the amounts of penalties,

49.2.216I.2.c

about the procedure for issuing penalties,

49.2.216I.2.d

about appealing penalties,

49.2.216I.2.e

about enforcing penalties.

49.2.216I.3

Regulations under subsection (1) may not create criminal offences.

49.2.216I.4

Regulations under subsection (1) may modify any enactment (including this
Act).

49.2.216I.5

Regulations under subsection (1) do not apply to a failure which began before
the date on which the regulations come into force.

.

49.3

In section 254 (subordinate legislation), in subsection (3), after paragraph
(l) insert—

49.3.la

section 216I(1),

.

#### Reviews and appeals

##### Reviews and appeals of decisions of Revenue Scotland

50

50.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

50.2

In section 233(1) (appealable decisions), after paragraph (i) insert—

50.2.j

a decision in relation to the extent of any person’s entitlement to any tax
credit or to a repayment in respect of a tax credit under section 15 of the
AT(S) Act 2024, and the extent of any liability of Revenue Scotland to pay
interest on any amount,

50.2.k

a decision in relation to whether or not any person is required to have a tax
representative by virtue of any regulations under section 26 of the AT(S) Act
2024,

50.2.l

a decision in relation to the giving, withdrawal or variation, for the
purposes of any regulations under section 26 of the AT(S) Act 2024, of any
approval or direction with respect to the person who is to act as another’s
tax representative,

50.2.m

a decision in relation to—

50.2.m.i

whether a body corporate is to be treated, or is to cease to be treated, as a
member of a group under section 29 of the AT(S) Act 2024,

50.2.m.ii

the times at which a body corporate is to be so treated, and

50.2.m.iii

which body corporate is, in relation to any time, to be the representative
member for a group,

50.2.n

a decision in relation to the requirement of security for the payment of
Scottish aggregates tax under section 36 or 37 of the AT(S) Act 2024.

.

#### Interpretation

##### Interpretation of Part 1

51

51.1

In this Part—

      “ accounting period ” means a period which, in pursuance of any
regulations under  section 23 (1) , is an accounting period for the purposes
of the tax,           “ aggregate ” is to be construed in accordance with
sections 3  and  4 (1) ,           “ agreement ” includes any arrangement or
understanding (whether or not legally enforceable), and cognate expressions
are to be construed accordingly,           “ agricultural ” means relating to
the trade of agriculture, which includes horticulture, fruit growing, seed
growing, dairy farming, livestock breeding and keeping, the use of land as
grazing land, meadow land, osier land, market gardens and nursery grounds, and
the use of land for woodlands where that use is ancillary to the farming of
land for other agricultural purposes,           “ commercial exploitation ” is
to be construed in accordance with  section 7 ,           “ construction
purposes ” is to be construed in accordance with subsection (2) of this
section,           “ excepted process ” has the meaning given by  section 4
(2) ,           “ forestry ” includes the cultivation, maintenance and care of
trees or woodland of any description,           “ gravel ” includes gravel
comprising or containing pebbles or stones or both,           “ member ” and “
representative member ”, in relation to a group, are to be construed in
accordance with  section 29 ,           “ mixed ” includes blended, and
cognate expressions are to be construed accordingly,           “ non-resident
taxpayer ” has the meaning given by  section 26 (2) ,           “ operate ”
and “ operator ”, in relation to any site, is to be construed in accordance
with  section 10 ,           “ originating site ” is to be construed in
accordance with  section 9 ,           “ the register ” means the register
maintained by Revenue Scotland under  section 17 ,           “ registered ”
means registered in the register maintained by Revenue Scotland under  section
17 ,           “ rock ” does not include any rock contained in a quantity of
aggregate consisting wholly or mainly of gravel or sand,           “ Scottish
marine area ” has the meaning given by section 1 of the Marine (Scotland) Act
2010,           “ structure ” includes roads and paths, the way on which any
railway track is or is to be laid, and road and railway embankments,
“ the tax ” means Scottish aggregates tax,           “ tax credit ” means a
tax credit for which provision is made by virtue of  section 15 (1) ,
“ tax representative ”, in relation to any person, means the person who, in
accordance with any regulations under  section 26 (1) , is for the time being
that person’s tax representative for the purposes of the tax,           “
taxable aggregate ” is to be construed in accordance with  section 5 (2) ,
“ United Kingdom waters ” means—         the territorial sea adjacent to the
United Kingdom, except so much of that territorial sea as is to be treated as
adjacent to Scotland for the purposes of the Scotland Act 1998 (see section
126(2) of that Act), or           any area designated by Order in Council
under section 1(7) of the Continental Shelf Act 1964.

51.2

References in this Part to the use of anything for construction purposes are
references to either of the following, except in so far as it consists in the
application to it of an excepted process, that is to say—

51.2.a

using it as material or support in the construction or improvement of any
structure,

51.2.b

mixing it with anything as part of the process of producing mortar, concrete,
tarmacadam, coated roadstone or any similar construction material.

51.3

References in this Part to winning any aggregate are references to winning it—

51.3.a

by quarrying, dredging, mining or collecting it from any land or area of the
seabed, or

51.3.b

by separating it in any other manner from any land or area of the seabed in
which it is comprised.

51.4

References in  this Part , in relation to any accounting period, to tax due
from any person for that period are references (subject to any regulations
made by virtue of  section 23 (2) (a) ) to the tax for which that person is
required, in accordance with regulations under  section 23 (1) , to account by
reference to that period.

51.5

For the purposes of  this Part  a person is resident in the United Kingdom at
any time if, at that time—

51.5.a

that person has an established place of business in the United Kingdom,

51.5.b

that person has a usual place of residence in the United Kingdom, or

51.5.c

that person is a firm or unincorporated body which (without being resident in
the United Kingdom by virtue of  paragraph (a) ) has amongst its partners or
members at least one individual with a usual place of residence in the United
Kingdom.

##### Interpretation of the Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014

52

52.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

52.2

In section 252 (general interpretation), before the definition of “the LBTT(S)
Act 2013” insert—

      “ the AT(S) Act 2024 ” means the Aggregates Tax and Devolved Taxes
Administration (Scotland) Act 2024,

.

52.3

In schedule 5 (index of defined expressions), before the entry relating to
“LBTT(S) Act 2013” insert—

      AT(S) Act 2024 section 252

.

### Devolved taxes administration

#### Minor amendment of section 94 of the Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014

53

53.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

53.2

In section 94 (direction to complete enquiry), in subsection (3), for
“paragraph” substitute  “section” .

#### Refusal of repayment claim where other tax not paid

54

54.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

54.2

In schedule 3 (claims for relief from double assessment and for repayment), in
paragraph 12, after sub-paragraph (2) insert—

54.2.3

If a person who has made a claim has failed to pay to Revenue Scotland an
amount (whether of tax, penalty or interest) other than the amount which is
the subject of the claim, Revenue Scotland need not give effect to the claim
to the extent of that failure.

.

#### Penalties for failure to pay tax

55

55.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

55.2

In section 168 (penalty for failure to pay tax), in subsection (1), in entry 1
of the table, in column 4—

55.2.a

before the existing words insert—

          The earlier of—         the date falling 30 days after the date by
which the amount must be paid, or           if the tax return was not made on
or before the filing date, the date falling 30 days after the filing date.

,

55.2.b

in the existing words “(a),” is repealed.

#### Communications from Revenue Scotland to taxpayers

56

56.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act is modified as follows.

56.2

After section 251 insert—

########## Communications from Revenue Scotland to taxpayers

########### Communications from Revenue Scotland to taxpayers

56.2.251A

56.2.251A.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision about communications
from Revenue Scotland to any person.

56.2.251A.2

Regulations under subsection (1) may in particular include provision about the
use of electronic communications.

56.2.251A.3

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under subsection (1) before the Scottish Parliament, the Scottish
Ministers must consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

56.2.251A.4

Regulations under subsection (1) may modify any enactment (including this
Act).

.

56.3

In section 254 (subordinate legislation), in subsection (3), after paragraph
(p) insert—

56.3.pa

section 251A(1),

.

#### Use of automation by Revenue Scotland

57

57.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

57.2

After section 251A (as inserted by  section 56 (2) ) insert—

########## Use of automation by Revenue Scotland

########### Use of automation by Revenue Scotland

57.2.251B

57.2.251B.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision about the use by
Revenue Scotland of automation in carrying out functions conferred on Revenue
Scotland or a designated officer.

57.2.251B.2

Before laying a draft of a Scottish statutory instrument containing
regulations under subsection (1) before the Scottish Parliament, the Scottish
Ministers must consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

57.2.251B.3

Regulations under subsection (1) may modify any enactment (including this
Act).

.

57.3

In section 254 (subordinate legislation), in subsection (3), after paragraph
(pa) (as inserted by  section 56 (3) ) insert—

57.3.pb

section 251B(1),

.

#### Set-off by Revenue Scotland

58

58.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

58.2

After section 251B (as inserted by section 57(2)) insert—

########## Set-off by Revenue Scotland

########### Set-off by Revenue Scotland

58.2.251C

58.2.251C.1

This section applies where there is both a credit and a debit in relation to a
person.

58.2.251C.2

In this section and section 251D—

      “ credit ”, in relation to a person, means—         a sum that is
payable by Revenue Scotland to a person, or           a relevant sum that may
be repaid by Revenue Scotland to a person,                 “ debit ”, in
relation to a person, means a sum that is payable by the person to Revenue
Scotland (including under a contract settlement or a settlement agreement).

58.2.251C.3

For the purposes of paragraph (b) of the definition of “credit” in subsection
(2), a “ relevant sum ” in relation to a person means a sum that was paid in
connection with any liability (including any purported or anticipated
liability) of that person to make a payment to Revenue Scotland under or by
virtue of an enactment or a contract settlement or a settlement agreement.

58.2.251C.4

For the purposes of the definition of “debit” in subsection (2), a sum is not
to be treated as payable if the sum can be varied or set aside on review or
appeal.

58.2.251C.5

Revenue Scotland may set the credit against the debit (subject to section 251D
and any obligation of Revenue Scotland to set the credit against another sum).

58.2.251C.6

The obligations of Revenue Scotland and the person concerned are discharged to
the extent of any set-off under subsection (5).

58.2.251C.7

In this section references to sums paid, repaid or payable by or to a person
include sums that have been or are to be credited by or to a person.

58.2.251C.8

This section does not affect any other power of Revenue Scotland to set off
amounts.

########### No set-off where insolvency procedure has been applied

58.2.251D

58.2.251D.1

This section applies where—

58.2.251D.1.a

an insolvency procedure has been applied to a person, and

58.2.251D.1.b

there is a post-insolvency credit in relation to that person.

58.2.251D.2

Revenue Scotland may not use the power under section 251C to set that post-
insolvency credit against a pre-insolvency debit in relation to the person.

58.2.251D.3

In this section—

      “ post-insolvency credit ” means a credit that—         became due after
the insolvency procedure was applied to the person, and           relates to,
or to matters occurring at, times after it was so applied,                 “
pre-insolvency debit ” means a debit that—         arose before the insolvency
procedure was applied to the person, or           arose after that procedure
was so applied but relates to, or to matters occurring at, times before it was
so applied.

58.2.251D.4

Subject to subsection (5), for the purposes of this section an insolvency
procedure is to be taken to be applied to a person when—

58.2.251D.4.a

a bankruptcy order or winding up order or award of sequestration is made or an
administrator is appointed in relation to the person,

58.2.251D.4.b

the person is put into administrative receivership,

58.2.251D.4.c

if the person is a corporation, the person passes a resolution for voluntary
winding up,

58.2.251D.4.d

a voluntary arrangement comes into force in relation to the person,

58.2.251D.4.e

a deed of arrangement takes effect in relation to the person,

58.2.251D.4.f

the person’s estate becomes vested in any other person as the person’s trustee
under a trust deed (within the meaning of the Bankruptcy (Scotland) Act 2016),
or

58.2.251D.4.g

the person becomes subject to any other kind of arrangement analogous to those
described in paragraphs (a) to (f), anywhere in the world.

58.2.251D.5

In this section, references to the application of an insolvency procedure to a
person do not include—

58.2.251D.5.a

the application of an insolvency procedure to a person at a time when another
insolvency procedure applies to the person, or

58.2.251D.5.b

the application of an insolvency procedure to a person immediately upon
another insolvency procedure ceasing to have effect.

58.2.251D.6

For the purposes of this section—

58.2.251D.6.a

a person is to be treated as being in administrative receivership throughout
any continuous period for which there is an administrative receiver of that
person (disregarding any temporary vacancy in the office of receiver), and

58.2.251D.6.b

the reference in subsection (4)(b) to a person being put into administrative
receivership is to be interpreted accordingly.

58.2.251D.7

In this section—

      “ administrative receiver ” means an administrative receiver within the
meaning of section 251 of the Insolvency Act 1986 or Article 5(1) of the
Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19)) ,
“ administrator ” means a person appointed to manage the affairs, business and
property of another person under schedule B1 of that Act or schedule B1 of
that Order,           “ deed of arrangement ” means a deed of arrangement
registered in accordance with Chapter 1 of Part 8 of the Insolvency (Northern
Ireland) Order 1989,           “ voluntary arrangement ” means a voluntary
arrangement approved in accordance with Part 1 or Part 8 of the Insolvency Act
1986 or Part 2 or Chapter 2 of Part 8 of the Insolvency (Northern Ireland)
Order 1989.

.

#### Role of designated officer

59

59.1

The Revenue Scotland and Tax Powers Act 2014 is modified as follows.

59.2

After section 251D (as inserted by section 58(2)) insert—

########## Continuity of designated officers’ acts

########### Continuity of designated officers’ acts

59.2.251E

Anything (including anything in relation to legal proceedings) begun by or in
relation to one designated officer may be continued by or in relation to
another.

.

59.3

In section 225 (summary warrants)—

59.3.a

in  subsection (3) (b) , for “the” substitute  “a designated” ,

59.3.b

in subsection (4)(a)(ii), for “the” in the first place where it appears
substitute  “a designated” .

#### Retrospective effect of amendments made by the Land and Buildings Transaction Tax (Group Relief Modification) (Scotland) Order 2018

60

60.1

The following are to be treated as having had effect since 1 April 2015—

60.1.a

the amendments made by article 2 of the 2018 Order,

60.1.b

article 3 of the 2018 Order, as modified by subsection (2).

60.2

In article 3 of the 2018 Order, the reference to 30th June 2018 is to be read
as a reference to 1 April 2015.

60.3

In this section, “ the 2018 Order ” means the Land and Buildings Transaction
Tax (Group Relief Modification) (Scotland) Order 2018 ( S.S.I 2018/222 ).

### Final provisions

#### Regulations

61

61.1

Regulations under the following provisions are subject to the affirmative
procedure: sections  4 (4) ,  7 (10) ,  18 (5)  and 20 and the first
regulations under  section 12 (3) .

61.2

The second and subsequent regulations under  section 12 (3) —

61.2.a

must be laid before the Scottish Parliament, and

61.2.b

cease to have effect at the expiry of the period of 28 days beginning with the
date on which they were made unless, before the expiry of that period, the
regulations have been approved by resolution of the Parliament.

61.3

Regulations under the following provisions are subject to the negative
procedure: sections  11 (1) ,  15 (1) ,  22 ,  23 (1) ,  26 (1) ,  27 (2) ,
33 (1) ,  34 (1)  and  35 (1) .

#### Ancillary provision

62

62.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, in connection with or for giving full effect
to this Act or any provision made under it.

62.2

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may—

62.2.a

modify any enactment (including this Act),

62.2.b

make different provision for different purposes.

62.3

Regulations under  subsection (1) —

62.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act,

62.3.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Crown application

63

Nothing in this Act affects His Majesty in His personal capacity.

#### Commencement

64

64.1

This section  and  sections 62 ,  63  and  65  come into force on the day
after Royal Assent.

64.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

64.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may—

64.3.a

include transitional, transitory or saving provision,

64.3.b

make different provision for different purposes.

#### Short title

65

The short title of this Act is the Aggregates Tax and Devolved Taxes
Administration (Scotland) Act 2024.

