Title: Agriculture and Rural Communities (Scotland) Act 2024
Date: 2024-09-02
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/asp/2024/11

## Agriculture and Rural Communities (Scotland) Act 2024

### Objectives and planning

#### Overarching objectives of agricultural policy

1

1.1

For the purposes of this Act, the objectives of Scottish agricultural policy
are—

1.1.a

the adoption and use of sustainable and regenerative agricultural practices,

1.1.b

the production of high-quality food,

1.1.c

the promotion and support of agricultural practices that protect and improve
animal health and welfare,

1.1.d

the facilitation of on-farm nature restoration, climate mitigation and
adaptation, and

1.1.e

enabling rural communities to thrive.

1.2

The Scottish Ministers may, by regulations, amend the objectives of
agricultural policy under subsection (1).

1.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Rural support plan

2

2.1

The Scottish Ministers must—

2.1.a

prepare a plan (a “rural support plan”) giving information about the expected
use during the plan period of the powers conferred on them by section  6 , and

2.1.b

exercise their functions under this Act having regard to that plan.

2.2

A rural support plan must set out—

2.2.a

the plan period,

2.2.b

the Scottish Ministers’ strategic priorities for providing support during the
plan period,

2.2.c

an overview of the support expected to be provided during the plan period,
including—

2.2.c.i

an indication of the total amount of support that is expected to be provided
over the period,

2.2.c.ii

a description of the way in which support is to be structured (for example, by
reference to support schemes that are to be paid in a certain way or for
certain purposes or activities),

2.2.c.iii

an indication of how the total amount of support is to be divided between
support schemes,

2.2.c.iv

an indication of the time periods for when particular support schemes may
become operational or end,

2.2.c.v

any measures that are intended to benefit small producers, tenant farmers and
crofters, and

2.2.c.vi

any specific outcomes that the Scottish Ministers are seeking to achieve
(whether in respect of different support schemes or otherwise),

2.2.d

in such manner and giving such detail as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate, a description of each support scheme that—

2.2.d.i

is in operation, or

2.2.d.ii

the Scottish Ministers expect to come into operation during the plan period,
and

2.2.e

the manner in which the impact of each support scheme will be monitored for
the purposes of  section 21 .

2.3

A rural support plan may—

2.3.a

describe how the Scottish Ministers consider the support provided under the
plan will—

2.3.a.i

reduce greenhouse gas emissions (within the meaning of section 10 of the
Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009) from agriculture,

2.3.a.ii

reduce harm from pesticides,

2.3.a.iii

reduce nitrogen loss and waste,

2.3.a.iv

optimise the proportion of land which is farmed organically,

2.3.a.v

optimise the proportion of land which is used for agroforestry,

2.3.a.vi

improve the biodiversity of agricultural land, including the contribution of
agriculture to landscape-scale nature recovery,

2.3.a.vii

protect and improve the welfare conditions of farmed animals,

2.3.a.viii

improve the quality of ground and surface water, and

2.3.b

include such further information as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate.

2.4

A plan prepared under this section must be laid before the Scottish
Parliament, and published, by the Scottish Ministers—

2.4.a

in the case of the first plan, as soon as practicable after this section comes
into force, and

2.4.b

in the case of a subsequent plan, at least 6 months before the end of the plan
period of the preceding plan.

2.5

The Scottish Ministers may amend the rural support plan within the plan period
if—

2.5.a

their strategic priorities for providing support change, or

2.5.b

it appears to them that any information set out in the plan in accordance with
subsection  (2) (d)  has ceased to be accurate and complete.

2.6

Where the Scottish Ministers amend a plan, they must as soon as reasonably
practicable—

2.6.a

lay the amended plan before the Scottish Parliament, and

2.6.b

publish it.

2.7

For the purposes of this section, the “plan period” is the period to which the
plan relates and—

2.7.a

in the case of the first plan, is the period of 5 years beginning with the day
on which it is published,

2.7.b

in the case of each subsequent plan, is the period of five years beginning on
the day after the preceding plan period ends.

2.8

The plan period of a rural support plan is not affected by the Scottish
Ministers amending the plan under subsection  (5) .

2.9

A reference in this Act to the rural support plan is (unless the context
otherwise requires) a reference to the plan which has most recently been
published under this section.

2.10

For the purposes of this section, “ support scheme ” means a scheme operated
by the Scottish Ministers for the provision of support under or by virtue of
this Act.

2.11

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify subsection (3) to add, adjust
or remove information that may be included in a rural support plan.

2.12

Regulations under subsection (11) are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Rural support plan: matters to be considered

3

3.1

The Scottish Ministers must have regard to the following matters when
preparing or amending a rural support plan under section  2 .

3.2

The matters are—

3.2.a

the objectives set out in section  1 ,

3.2.b

the proposals and policies contained in the climate change plan which relate
to agriculture, forestry and rural land use,

3.2.c

any other statutory duty of the Scottish Ministers relating to agriculture,
forestry, rural land use, biodiversity or the environment,

3.2.d

developments in the law and policy of the European Union,

3.2.e

the desirability of the agricultural sector operating with fair work
principles,

3.2.f

the objectives of a plan produced under section 1 of the Good Food Nation
(Scotland) Act 2022,

3.2.g

the need for sustainable food systems and supply chains in delivering food
security,

3.2.h

the benefits of a diverse and resilient agricultural sector including small
producers, tenant farmers, crofters and agricultural co-operative societies.

3.3

For the purpose of subsection  (2) , the “ climate change plan ” means the
plan laid before the Scottish Parliament under section 35 of the Climate
Change (Scotland) Act 2009.

3.4

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify this section to add, adjust
or remove a matter to which regard must be had.

3.5

Regulations under subsection  (4)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

#### Rural support plan: engagement

4

4.1

Subsection  (2)  applies when the Scottish Ministers are preparing a rural
support plan.

4.2

The Scottish Ministers must consult—

4.2.a

such persons as they consider representative of the interests of—

4.2.a.i

farmers (including tenant farmers), crofters and land managers,

4.2.a.ii

people who live and work in rural communities,

4.2.b

Food Standards Scotland,

4.2.c

Historic Environment Scotland,

4.2.d

Scottish Environment Protection Agency,

4.2.e

Scottish Natural Heritage,

4.2.f

the Scottish Food Commission, and

4.2.g

such other persons as they consider appropriate.

4.3

Subsection  (4)  applies when the Scottish Ministers amend the rural support
plan.

4.4

The Scottish Ministers must consult such persons as they consider likely to
have an interest in or be affected by the amendments to the rural support
plan.

4.5

At the same time as laying the rural support plan or the amended plan before
the Scottish Parliament, the Scottish Ministers must lay a statement
describing the consultation undertaken in respect of the plan (or amendment).

#### Reports on rural support plan

5

5.1

As soon as practicable after the end of each plan period under section 2, the
Scottish Ministers must prepare a report.

5.2

The report must include—

5.2.a

the total amount of support or other relevant assistance provided during the
plan period (including the monetary value of any support provided otherwise
than as financial support),

5.2.b

the amount of support provided—

5.2.b.i

under each support scheme in operation during the period,

5.2.b.ii

otherwise than under a support scheme,

5.2.b.iii

to third party schemes,

5.2.c

a description of the way in which any support provided otherwise than as
financial support has been provided,

5.2.d

the distribution of support provided (including geographically and by sector),

5.2.e

the Scottish Ministers’ assessment of—

5.2.e.i

the effectiveness of the strategic priorities set out in the rural support
plan,

5.2.e.ii

whether any specific outcomes contained in the rural support plan have been
achieved,

5.2.e.iii

the progress made (if any) in respect of the objectives set out in section 1,
and

5.2.e.iv

the impact of any exercise of their powers under section 11, including by
reference to the amount of support that would otherwise have been provided.

5.3

The report may also contain such other information as the Scottish Ministers
consider appropriate.

5.4

The Scottish Ministers may also prepare—

5.4.a

interim reports about the amount of support provided during any period within
a plan period,

5.4.b

other reports about the support that has been provided.

5.5

The Scottish Ministers must, after preparing a report under this section—

5.5.a

lay a copy of the report before the Scottish Parliament, and

5.5.b

publish the report.

5.6

In this section, “ relevant assistance ” means financial assistance provided
by the Scottish Ministers under or by virtue of another enactment (including,
in particular, assimilated law governing the CAP direct payment schemes and
assimilated direct CAP legislation for a purpose similar to a purpose
described in schedule 1).

### Support for agriculture, rural development and related matters

#### Power to provide support

##### Power to provide support

6

6.1

The Scottish Ministers may provide support for or in connection with the
purposes described in schedule  1 .

6.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify schedule  1  by—

6.2.a

adding a purpose,

6.2.b

amending the description of a purpose (including by defining a word or
expression),

6.2.c

removing a purpose.

6.3

Regulations made under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

6.4

In this Part, except where the context otherwise requires—

6.4.a

a reference to support (other than a reference to the provision of support by
a third party described in section  7 ) is to support provided under this
section, and

6.4.b

a reference to financial support is a reference to support under this section
that is provided financially.

##### Funding third party support

7

7.1

Without prejudice to the purposes described in schedule  1 , support may be
provided to—

7.1.a

the maker or operator of a third party scheme in connection with the
establishment or operation of that scheme (including in connection with the
provision of support under that scheme),

7.1.b

a person who otherwise provides support for or in connection with a purpose
described in schedule  1 .

7.2

A “third party scheme” is a scheme for the provision of support (whether
financially or otherwise) for or in connection with a purpose described in
schedule  1 , but which is not made by the Scottish Ministers.

#### General provision about support

##### Form of support and conditions

8

8.1

Support may be provided—

8.1.a

in such manner as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate including, in
particular, financial support by way of grant, loan or guarantee, and

8.1.b

under or in accordance with a scheme established by regulations made under
section  15 (1) , a scheme established administratively, or otherwise.

8.2

Except as otherwise provided in regulations made under section  15 (1) , the
Scottish Ministers may impose such conditions on the provision of support as
they consider appropriate.

8.3

The conditions that may be imposed may, in particular, include conditions
requiring the repayment or otherwise making good of any financial support
(with or without interest).

##### Guidance

9

9.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision in relation to
guidance about support (including the guidance contained in the Code of
Sustainable and Regenerative Agriculture (see section  29 )).

9.2

Provision under subsection  (1)  may, in particular, include provision—

9.2.a

requiring that guidance on a particular scheme or purpose be laid before the
Scottish Parliament and published,

9.2.b

requiring regard to be had by particular persons to the guidance,

9.2.c

specifying the extent to which compliance with guidance on a particular topic
is relevant in determining whether a person has complied with a statutory duty
or condition of support,

9.2.d

specifying the admissibility or evidential value of the guidance in legal
proceedings.

9.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Delegation

10

10.1

The Scottish Ministers may delegate functions relating to the providing of
support to any other person.

10.2

Functions delegated under subsection  (1)  may—

10.2.a

include the giving of guidance, or

10.2.b

permit the exercise of discretion in relation to a function.

10.3

The delegation of functions under subsection  (1)  does not—

10.3.a

affect the Scottish Ministers’ responsibility for the performance of the
function, or

10.3.b

prevent the Scottish Ministers from performing the function themselves.

##### Power to cap support and assistance

11

11.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations—

11.1.a

limit the overall amount of support or relevant assistance (or both) that a
person may receive within a payment period (or periods),

11.1.b

provide for the amount of support or relevant assistance (or both) that a
person may receive in a payment period (or periods) to progressively reduce
where the support exceeds a specified amount of support.

11.2

Before making regulations under this section, the Scottish Ministers must
consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

11.3

Regulations under this section are subject to the affirmative procedure.

11.4

In this section—

      “ payment period ” means any specified period relating to the payment of
support,           “ relevant assistance ” means financial assistance provided
by the Scottish Ministers under or by virtue of another enactment (including,
in particular, assimilated law governing the CAP direct payment schemes and
assimilated direct CAP legislation) for a purpose similar to a purpose
described in  schedule 1 ,           “ specified ” means specified in
regulations under subsection  (1) .

##### Refusal or recovery of support where in the public interest

12

12.1

The Scottish Ministers may (in accordance with any regulations made under
subsection  (2) )—

12.1.a

refuse to provide support if they consider that it is not in the public
interest for a person to receive it, and

12.1.b

in a case where the Scottish Ministers consider that it was not in the public
interest to have provided support to a person, take such steps as they
consider appropriate to recover it.

12.2

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision in connection with
the exercise of their powers under  subsection (1)  including provision
specifying—

12.2.a

persons in respect of whom the powers may be exercised,

12.2.b

circumstances in respect of which the powers may be exercised,

12.2.c

matters that the Scottish Ministers must take into account when considering
whether to exercise the powers,

12.2.d

the manner and circumstances in which a person who has had support refused or
recovered under subsection (1) may—

12.2.d.i

have the Scottish Ministers review their decision to exercise the powers, or

12.2.d.ii

appeal the decision.

12.3

Before making regulations under this section, the Scottish Ministers must
consult such persons as they consider likely to be affected by provisions in
this section.

12.4

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Intervention in agricultural markets

##### Exceptional market conditions: powers available to Scottish Ministers

13

13.1

Subsection  (2)  applies during the period for which an exceptional market
conditions declaration under  section 14  has effect.

13.2

The Scottish Ministers may provide, or agree to provide, financial support to
agricultural producers in Scotland who have been, are being, or are likely to
be, adversely affected by the exceptional market conditions described in the
declaration.

13.3

Nothing in  this section  affects any other powers that are available to the
Scottish Ministers (including under assimilated direct legislation and
assimilated direct CAP legislation) to provide financial support to
agricultural producers.

13.4

Financial support under  subsection (2)  may be provided by way of grant, loan
or guarantee or in any other form.

13.5

The financial support may be provided subject to such conditions as the
Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

13.6

The conditions may, in particular, include conditions requiring the repayment
or otherwise making good of any financial support (with or without interest).

13.7

Nothing in  subsection (1)  or  (2)  prevents the Scottish Ministers from
providing, or agreeing to provide, financial support under  subsection (2) —

13.7.a

after the end of the period for which an exceptional market conditions
declaration has effect, but

13.7.b

in response to an application made during that period.

##### Declaration relating to exceptional market conditions

14

14.1

If the Scottish Ministers consider that there are exceptional market
conditions, they may make and publish a declaration (“an exceptional market
conditions declaration”) in accordance with  this section .

14.2

There are “exceptional market conditions” if—

14.2.a

there is a severe disturbance in agricultural markets or a serious threat of a
severe disturbance in agricultural markets, and

14.2.b

the disturbance or threatened disturbance has, or is likely to have, a
significant adverse effect on agricultural producers in Scotland.

14.3

An exceptional market conditions declaration must—

14.3.a

state that the Scottish Ministers consider that there are exceptional market
conditions,

14.3.b

describe the exceptional market conditions in question by specifying—

14.3.b.i

the disturbance or threatened disturbance in agricultural markets,

14.3.b.ii

any agricultural product which is or is likely to be affected by the
disturbance or threatened disturbance,

14.3.b.iii

the grounds for considering that the disturbance or threatened disturbance
has, or is likely to have, a significant adverse effect on agricultural
producers,

14.3.c

describe the grounds for considering that the exceptional market conditions
justify making the powers conferred by or referred to in  section 13
available for use, and

14.3.d

specify the date until which the powers conferred by or referred to in
section 13 (2)  are available for use in relation to the exceptional market
conditions.

14.4

The date specified under  subsection (3) (d)  may not be later than the last
day of the period of 3 months beginning with the day on which the exceptional
market conditions declaration is published.

14.5

An exceptional market conditions declaration has effect from the beginning of
the day on which it is published until the end of the day specified under
subsection (3) (d) .

14.6

The Scottish Ministers may revoke an exceptional market conditions declaration
by making and publishing a declaration under  this subsection  stating that
the exceptional market conditions declaration is revoked from the date
specified in the declaration.

14.7

Subsection (8)  applies if, at any time during the period of 7 days ending
with the day specified under  subsection (3) (d)  in an exceptional market
conditions declaration that has effect under  this section , the Scottish
Ministers consider that there continue to be exceptional market conditions.

14.8

The Scottish Ministers may extend the exceptional market conditions
declaration by making and publishing a declaration under  this subsection
specifying—

14.8.a

that the exceptional market conditions declaration is extended for a period
(not exceeding 3 months) specified in the declaration, and

14.8.b

that the powers conferred by or referred to in  section 13 (2)  are available
for use during that period.

14.9

The fact that an exceptional market conditions declaration has expired or has
been revoked does not prevent the Scottish Ministers from making and
publishing another exceptional market conditions declaration relating in whole
or part to the same exceptional market conditions.

14.10

The Scottish Ministers must lay a copy of any declaration made and published
under  this section  before the Scottish Parliament as soon as practicable
after it is published.

14.11

In  this section  and  section 13 , a reference to agricultural markets,
agricultural producers or agricultural products includes a reference to
horticultural markets, horticultural producers or horticultural products (as
the case may be).

#### Administrative matters, eligibility and enforcement

##### Regulations about support

15

15.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision for or in connection
with the provision of support or support for a particular purpose.

15.2

Regulations under this section may, in particular, make provision about—

15.2.a

eligibility criteria for receiving support (see section  16 ),

15.2.b

payment entitlements (see section  17 ),

15.2.c

the amount of support, including—

15.2.c.i

how the amount of support is to be determined,

15.2.c.ii

setting a minimum amount for a payment of support,

15.2.c.iii

reducing the amount of payments of support in particular circumstances (other
than those described in section  11 ),

15.2.d

how support is to be paid or otherwise provided,

15.2.e

conditions that may or must be imposed when providing support,

15.2.f

checking, enforcing and monitoring support (see  section 18 ),

15.2.g

such administrative and procedural matters in connection with the provision of
support as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate, and

15.2.h

the publication of information about support that is being or has been
provided (see  section 19 ).

15.3

Before making regulations under this section, the Scottish Ministers must
consult such persons as they consider likely to be interested in or affected
by provisions in this section.

15.4

Regulations under this section—

15.4.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if the regulations in question, in
the opinion of the Scottish Ministers, would make significant provision, or

15.4.b

otherwise, are subject to the negative procedure.

15.5

For the purpose of subsection  (4) (a) , significant provision includes—

15.5.a

establishing a scheme in respect of support for a particular purpose which
will—

15.5.a.i

have a significant number of potential recipients or have a significant impact
on recipients,

15.5.a.ii

affect a significant amount of land or have a significant impact on a
particular type of land,

15.5.a.iii

have a significant monetary value (as assessed by reference to the value of
support generally),

15.5.a.iv

create a criminal offence (see section  18 ), and

15.5.b

making significant changes to an existing scheme of support that is, by
reference to the matters in paragraph (a), a significant scheme.

##### Eligibility criteria for support

16

16.1

Regulations under section  15 (2) (a)  may, in particular, make provision for
or in connection with criteria for support by reference to—

16.1.a

the activity which a person carries out,

16.1.b

how a person carries out an activity, including whether the person carries out
the activity personally or through other arrangements,

16.1.c

a person’s characteristics or personal, financial or business circumstances
(for example, a person commencing an agricultural activity for the first time
or meeting a specific threshold for turnover from agricultural activity),

16.1.d

the type or location of land on which a person carries out an activity,

16.1.e

the amount of land on which a person carries out an activity, which may be set
by reference to the type of activity (for example, horticulture), or the
manner in which the land is occupied (for example, as a croft),

16.1.f

the manner in which title to, or occupancy of, land on which an activity is
carried out is registered or recorded (for example, if the land is registered
in the Land Register of Scotland),

16.1.g

the ability of grazing committees and co-operatives to claim support as a
collective for joint projects separate to individual support.

16.2

In this section “ grazing committee ” has the meaning given by section 47 of
the Crofters (Scotland) Act 1993.

##### Payment entitlements

17

17.1

Regulations under section  15 (2) (b)  may, in particular, make provision for
or in connection with—

17.1.a

the determination of the number of payment entitlements available,

17.1.b

the allocation of payment entitlements,

17.1.c

the value of payment entitlements,

17.1.d

the transfer of payment entitlements (whether or not for a consideration),

17.1.e

the Scottish Ministers holding payment entitlements for allocation to
specified categories of persons,

17.1.f

the surrender of payment entitlements to, or the reclamation or cancelling of
payment entitlements by, the Scottish Ministers,

17.1.g

creating and maintaining a register of persons allocated payment entitlements,

17.1.h

the charging of fees of such amount as may be specified for making changes to
the register necessitated by the transfer of entitlements.

17.2

In this Part, a “payment entitlement” is the entitlement of a person to be
provided an amount of support for a particular purpose (subject to meeting any
eligibility criteria and conditions or limits on payments).

##### Checking, enforcing and monitoring support

18

18.1

Regulations under section  15 (2) (f)  may, in particular, make provision for
or in connection with—

18.1.a

checking whether eligibility criteria for support are met,

18.1.b

the consequences where support has been provided without eligibility criteria
having been met,

18.1.c

enforcing compliance with any conditions to which support is or has been
provided,

18.1.d

monitoring the extent to which the purpose of providing support has been
achieved,

18.1.e

the creation of offences and investigation of suspected offences in connection
with applications for, or the provision of support.

18.2

Without limit to the generality of subsection  (1) , such provision may
include provision—

18.2.a

about the provision of information,

18.2.b

conferring powers of entry,

18.2.c

conferring powers of inspection, search and seizure,

18.2.d

about the process for determining whether eligibility criteria for, or
conditions applying to, the provision of support are met,

18.2.e

about record keeping,

18.2.f

about the recovery or making good of all or any part of support (with or
without interest),

18.2.g

about withholding support, in whole or in part,

18.2.h

about steps to be taken, by a person to whom support is or has been provided,
to rectify any breach of a condition applicable to that support,

18.2.i

about imposing monetary penalties (including penalties calculated by reference
to the value of any support),

18.2.j

for recovery of amounts due in respect of monetary penalties,

18.2.k

prohibiting a person from receiving support, or support for a particular
purpose, for a specified period or until specified conditions are satisfied,

18.2.l

about how decisions are to be reviewed and appeals,

18.2.m

conferring functions (including functions involving the exercise of a
discretion) on a person.

18.3

Regulations made by virtue of  this section  may not authorise entry to a
private dwelling without a warrant issued by a summary sheriff or sheriff.

18.4

The provision which may be made by virtue of  subsection (2) (f)  includes
provision for interest on any recoverable amount to be payable from such day
(whether the day on which the financial assistance in question was given or a
later day) as may be specified in the regulations.

18.5

Regulations made by virtue of subsection  (1) (e)  creating an offence must
provide for the maximum penalty for the offence to be—

18.5.a

on conviction on indictment, a fine, or

18.5.b

on summary conviction, a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum.

18.6

In this section, “ specified ” means specified in, or determined under,
regulations made by virtue of subsection  (1) .

##### Publication of information about support

19

Regulations under section  15 (2) (h)  may, in particular, make provision—

19.a

imposing a requirement on any person (including the Scottish Ministers),

19.b

requiring that the information to be published includes information about—

19.b.i

the recipient of any support provided (and, in such circumstances as may be
specified in the regulations, any person who owns or controls the recipient),

19.b.ii

the amount of any support provided,

19.b.iii

the purposes of any support provided.

##### Processing of information

20

20.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision about the processing
of information for and in connection with—

20.1.a

the provision of—

20.1.a.i

support under this Act, or

20.1.a.ii

other relevant assistance,

20.1.b

the carrying out of functions in relation to continuing professional
development activities under this Act.

20.2

Regulations under this section may, in particular—

20.2.a

require a person to produce information in such form and within such
reasonable times as may be specified,

20.2.b

authorise the Scottish Ministers (and any persons acting on their behalf) to
share information with—

20.2.b.i

a public authority for the purpose of enabling or assisting the authority (and
any persons acting on their behalf) to exercise any functions,

20.2.b.ii

such other persons or descriptions of persons, in such circumstances as may be
specified.

20.3

A duty or power to disclose or use information which is imposed or conferred
by regulations under subsection (1) may not operate to require or authorise
the disclosure or use of information which would contravene the data
protection legislation (but the duty or power is to be taken into account in
determining whether the disclosure or use would contravene that legislation).

20.4

In this section—

      “ the data protection legislation ” has the meaning given by section
3(9) of the Data Protection Act 2018,           “ processing ” is to be
construed in accordance with section 3(4) of the Data Protection Act 2018,
“ public authority ” means a public authority in any part of the United
Kingdom,           “ relevant assistance ” means financial assistance provided
by the Scottish Ministers under or by virtue of another enactment (including,
in particular, assimilated law governing the CAP direct payment schemes and
assimilated direct CAP legislation) for a purpose similar to a purpose
described in  schedule 1 ,           “ specified ” means specified in, or
determined under, regulations under subsection  (1) .

20.5

Regulations under this section are subject to the negative procedure.

##### Monitoring and evaluation of schemes

21

21.1

The Scottish Ministers must, in relation to each support scheme—

21.1.a

monitor the impact of the scheme, and

21.1.b

prepare one or more reports on the impact and effectiveness of the scheme
(having had regard to the findings of that monitoring).

21.2

The Scottish Ministers may, in relation to any support provided otherwise than
under a support scheme or the provision of other relevant assistance—

21.2.a

monitor the impact of the support or assistance, and

21.2.b

prepare one or more reports on the impact and effectiveness of the support or
assistance (having had regard to the findings of that monitoring).

21.3

Monitoring under subsection  (1)  or  (2)  must be carried out in such manner
and for such period or periods as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate
for the scheme or other support in question.

21.4

The number and frequency of reports prepared under subsection  (1)  or  (2)
are to be as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate for the scheme or
other support in question.

21.5

The Scottish Ministers must, after preparing a report under this section—

21.5.a

lay a copy of the report before the Scottish Parliament, and

21.5.b

publish the report.

### Powers to modify existing legislation relating to support

#### Powers in relation to relevant CAP legislation

##### Power to simplify, improve or update relevant CAP legislation

22

22.1

The Agriculture (Retained EU Law and Data) (Scotland) Act 2020 is modified as
follows.

22.2

In section 1 (defined terms), in subsection (2)—

22.2.a

in the opening words, for “main” substitute  “relevant” ,

22.2.b

after paragraph (b) insert—

22.2.b.ba

the CMO Regulation,

.

22.3

In section 2 (power to simplify or improve CAP legislation)—

22.3.a

in subsection (1), for “the main” substitute  “or restate, to any extent, the
relevant” ,

22.3.b

in subsection (2)—

22.3.b.i

the words from “that” to “legislation” become paragraph (a),

22.3.b.ii

after that paragraph insert—

22.3.b.ii.b

that they consider appropriate to take account of—

22.3.b.ii.b.i

changes in technology, or

22.3.b.ii.b.ii

developments in scientific understanding.

,

22.3.c

after subsection (2) insert—

22.3.c.2A

A restatement under subsection (1) may make any change to the legislation that
the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate—

22.3.c.2A.a

for the purposes of—

22.3.c.2A.a.i

resolving ambiguity,

22.3.c.2A.a.ii

removing doubt or an anomaly,

22.3.c.2A.a.iii

facilitating improvements in the clarity or accessibility of the law
(including by omitting anything which is legally unnecessary),

22.3.c.2A.b

to take account of—

22.3.c.2A.b.i

changes in technology, or

22.3.c.2A.b.ii

developments in scientific understanding.

22.3.c.2B

A restatement under subsection (1) may use words or concepts that are
different from those used in the provision being restated.

.

22.4

The section title of section 2 becomes  “ Power to simplify, improve or update
relevant CAP legislation ” .

##### Power to continue or end the operation of relevant CAP legislation

23

23.1

The Agriculture (Retained EU Law and Data) (Scotland) Act 2020 is modified as
follows.

23.2

In section 3 (power to provide for the operation of CAP legislation beyond
2020)—

23.2.a

in subsection (1)—

23.2.a.i

for “main” substitute  “relevant” ,

23.2.a.ii

the words “for one or more years beyond 2020” are repealed,

23.2.b

after subsection (1) insert—

23.2.b.1A

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify any provision of the relevant
CAP legislation for the purpose of securing that it—

23.2.b.1A.a

ceases to apply for a period, or

23.2.b.1A.b

ceases to have effect in Scotland.

,

23.2.c

subsections (2) and (3) are repealed,

23.2.d

in subsection (4), for “subject to the affirmative procedure” substitute  “(if
they have not been subject to the affirmative procedure) subject to the
negative procedure” .

23.3

The section title of section 3 becomes  “ Power to continue or end the
operation of relevant CAP legislation ” .

##### Power to modify financial provision in relevant CAP legislation

24

24.1

The Agriculture (Retained EU Law and Data) (Scotland) Act 2020 is modified as
follows.

24.2

In section 4 (power to modify financial provision in CAP legislation)—

24.2.a

in subsection (1), for “main” substitute  “relevant” ,

24.2.b

subsection (2) is repealed,

24.2.c

in subsection (3), for “subject to the affirmative procedure” substitute  “(if
they have not been subject to the affirmative procedure) subject to the
negative procedure” .

24.3

The section title of section 4 becomes  “ Power to modify financial provision
in relevant CAP legislation ” .

##### Repeal of section 5

25

Section 5 of the Agriculture (Retained EU Law and Data) (Scotland) Act 2020 is
repealed.

##### Public intervention and private storage aid

26

26.1

The Agriculture (Retained EU Law and Data) (Scotland) Act 2020 is modified as
follows.

26.2

In section 6 (power to modify CAP legislation on public intervention and
private storage aid)—

26.2.a

for subsection (2) substitute—

26.2.a.2

The power conferred by subsection (1) includes the power to make provision for
the purposes of—

26.2.a.2.a

altering the operation of the legislation so far as it has effect in
connection with exceptional market conditions which are the subject of a
declaration under section  14  of the Agriculture and Rural Communities
(Scotland) Act 2024,

26.2.a.2.b

securing that provisions of the legislation cease to have effect otherwise
than in connection with exceptional market conditions which are the subject of
such a declaration,

26.2.a.2.c

altering the operation of provisions of the legislation otherwise than in
connection with exceptional market conditions.

,

26.2.b

after subsection (3) insert—

26.2.b.3A

For the purposes of this section, a reference to exceptional market conditions
which are the subject of a declaration under section  14  of the Agriculture
and Rural Communities (Scotland) Act 2024 includes a reference to
circumstances which are the subject of measures under Articles 219, 220 and
221 of the CMO Regulation.

.

##### Power to modify CAP legislation on aid for fruit and vegetable producer organisations

27

27.1

In section 7 of the Agriculture (Retained EU Law and Data) (Scotland) Act 2020
(power to simplify or improve CAP legislation on aid for fruit and vegetable
producer organisations), subsection (2) is repealed.

27.2

The section title of section 7 becomes  “ Power to modify CAP legislation on
aid for fruit and vegetable producer organisations ” .

##### Apiculture

28

After section 7 of the Agriculture (Retained EU Law and Data) (Scotland) Act
2020 insert—

######### Apiculture

########## Apiculture

28.7A

28.7A.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify the legislation governing
apiculture.

28.7A.2

In this section, the “ legislation governing apiculture ” includes, in
particular—

28.7A.2.a

Articles 55 to 57 and 215 of the CMO Regulation,

28.7A.2.b

any delegated or implementing Regulations made (whether by the Commission or
the Council) under the CMO Regulation relating to those Articles,

28.7A.2.c

any subordinate legislation implementing or otherwise relating to those
Articles.

28.7A.3

Regulations under this section are (if they have not been subject to the
affirmative procedure) subject to the negative procedure.

.

### Miscellaneous

#### Code of Practice on Sustainable and Regenerative Agriculture

29

29.1

The Scottish Ministers must prepare and publish a document providing guidance
on sustainable and regenerative agriculture within the period of one year
beginning with the day on which this section comes into force.

29.2

The document is to be called the “ Code of Practice on Sustainable and
Regenerative Agriculture ” (and is referred to in this section as “ the code
”).

29.3

The code is to include—

29.3.a

an explanation of what the Scottish Ministers consider to be sustainable and
regenerative agriculture,

29.3.b

the agricultural activities and methods which they consider to constitute best
practice for sustainable and regenerative agriculture,

29.3.c

such other information and guidance relating to sustainable and regenerative
agriculture as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate.

29.4

The Scottish Ministers must review and, if they consider it appropriate,
revise and publish the code (as so revised) by the end of each review period.

29.5

Before publishing the code or any revised code, the Scottish Ministers must
lay it before the Scottish Parliament.

29.6

The Scottish Ministers must, in preparing or reviewing the code, consult such
persons as they consider likely to be interested in or affected by it.

29.7

The Scottish Ministers must take such steps as they consider appropriate to
promote awareness of the code to persons likely to be affected by it—

29.7.a

after publication of the code (or the code as revised),

29.7.b

at such other times as they consider appropriate.

29.8

In this section, “ review period ” means—

29.8.a

the period of 5 years beginning with the day on which the first code is
published, and

29.8.b

each subsequent period of 5 years.

#### Continuing professional development

30

30.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make provision for or in connection
with the continuing professional development of—

30.1.a

farmers,

30.1.b

crofters,

30.1.c

land-managers,

30.1.d

persons who work in agriculture (whether as employees or otherwise),

30.1.e

persons who provide relevant advice or services to the persons listed in
paragraphs  (a)  to  (c)  (other than persons who are already subject to such
requirements),

30.1.f

such other categories of persons providing advice or services in or for rural
communities as may be specified in the regulations.

30.2

In  subsection (1) (e) , relevant advice or services means advice or services
relating to farming, crofting or land-management.

30.3

Regulations under  subsection (1)  may include provision about continuing
professional development activities which the persons mentioned in  subsection
(1)  may or must undertake (“CPD activities”), such as—

30.3.a

requiring the persons mentioned in  subsection (1)  to undertake particular,
or a particular amount of, CPD activities,

30.3.b

the form and content of CPD activities, including peer-to-peer learning,

30.3.c

the accreditation of CPD activities and the persons providing CPD activities,

30.3.d

requiring that any person providing CPD activities or any particular
description of CPD activities in accordance with the regulations holds such
qualifications, skills or experience as may be specified in the regulations,

30.3.e

the minimum criteria for successful completion of CPD activities,

30.3.f

how successful completion of CPD activities is recorded,

30.3.g

any circumstances in which a person who would otherwise be required to
undertake particular, or a particular amount of, CPD activities does not have
to do so,

30.3.h

monitoring and enforcement of any requirement to undertake particular, or a
particular amount of, CPD activities,

30.3.i

the charging of fees in connection with the provision of, or any requirement
to undertake, CPD activities,

30.3.j

the processing of information in connection with the provision of, or any
requirement to undertake, CPD activities, and

30.3.k

appeals against decisions of the Scottish Ministers (or a person acting on
their behalf) relating to any requirement to undertake CPD activities.

30.4

Before making regulations under this section, the Scottish Ministers must
consult such persons as they consider appropriate.

30.5

Regulations under subsection  (1) —

30.5.a

may make provision for persons other than the Scottish Ministers carrying out
functions in relation to CPD activities,

30.5.b

are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Monitoring and evaluation of continuing professional development

31

31.1

The Scottish Ministers must, in relation to each CPD scheme—

31.1.a

monitor the impact of the CPD scheme, and

31.1.b

prepare one or more reports on the impact and effectiveness of the CPD scheme
(having had regard to the findings of that monitoring and the matters to be
considered by virtue of subsection  (2) ).

31.2

For the purposes of monitoring a CPD scheme under subsection  (1) , the
Scottish Ministers must, in particular, consider whether the CPD scheme in
question—

31.2.a

is accessible to the persons to whom the CPD scheme relates, including by
reference to—

31.2.a.i

where CPD activities take place,

31.2.a.ii

the range, format and type of CPD activities that are available, and

31.2.a.iii

the costs associated with undertaking the CPD activities,

31.2.b

requires CPD activities to be undertaken only where it is appropriate and
proportionate to do so.

31.3

Monitoring under subsection  (1) (a)  may be carried out in such manner and
for such period or periods as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate for
the CPD scheme in question.

31.4

The number and frequency of reports prepared under subsection  (1) (b)  is to
be as the Scottish Ministers consider appropriate for the CPD scheme in
question.

31.5

The Scottish Ministers must, after preparing a report under this section—

31.5.a

lay a copy of the report before the Scottish Parliament, and

31.5.b

publish the report.

31.6

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations modify subsection  (2)  to add,
amend or remove a matter to be considered.

31.7

Regulations under subsection  (6)  are subject to the affirmative procedure.

31.8

In this section—

31.8.a

a reference to—

31.8.a.i

a CPD scheme is a reference to any set of CPD activities which a person
described in a paragraph of section 30(1) may or must undertake as a result of
regulations under that section,

31.8.a.ii

a person to whom a CPD scheme relates is a reference to a person who may or
must undertake certain CPD activities as a result of regulations made under
section 30,

31.8.b

“ CPD activities ” has the same meaning as in section 30(3).

#### Prescribing and regulating means of identifying animals

32

32.1

The Animal Health Act 1981 is modified as follows.

32.2

In section 8 (movement generally)—

32.2.a

in subsection (1), for paragraph (a) substitute—

32.2.a.a

for prescribing and regulating the means of identifying animals,

,

32.2.b

in subsection (1A) (as inserted by the Agriculture Act 2020), the words “made
by the Secretary of State or the Welsh Ministers” are repealed.

#### Food security statements

33

33.1

The Scottish Ministers must, not less than once in every period of 3 years,
prepare a statement on food security in Scotland.

33.2

The Scottish Ministers must, after preparing a statement under this section—

33.2.a

lay a copy of the statement before the Scottish Parliament, and

33.2.b

publish the statement.

33.3

The first statement under this section must be published within the period of
3 years beginning with the date of commencement of this section.

#### Repeals and minor modifications

34

34.1

The enactments mentioned in the first column of the table in  Part 1  of
schedule 2 are repealed or revoked to the extent specified in the second
column of the table.

34.2

Part 2  of schedule 2 contains minor modifications of enactments.

### Final provisions

#### Regulations

35

35.1

A power to make regulations conferred by this Act includes the power to make—

35.1.a

different provision for different purposes or areas, and

35.1.b

incidental, supplemental, consequential, transitional, transitory or saving
provision.

35.2

This section does not apply to section  38 .

#### Ancillary provision

36

36.1

The Scottish Ministers may by regulations make any incidental, supplementary,
consequential, transitional, transitory or saving provision they consider
appropriate for the purposes of, or in connection with or for giving full
effect to this Act or any provision made under it.

36.2

Regulations under this section may modify any enactment (including this Act).

36.3

Regulations under this section—

36.3.a

are subject to the affirmative procedure if they add to, replace or omit any
part of the text of an Act (including this Act), but

36.3.b

otherwise are subject to the negative procedure.

#### Index of defined terms

37

In this Act—

      “ exceptional market conditions ” is to be construed in accordance with
section  14 (2) ,           “ exceptional market conditions declaration ” has
the meaning given in section  14 (1) ,           “ financial support ” is to
construed in accordance with section  6 (4) ,           “ payment entitlement
” is to be construed in accordance with  section 17 (2) ,           “ rural
support plan ” is to be construed in accordance with  section 2 (9) ,
“ support ” is to be construed in accordance with section  6 (4) ,           “
third party scheme ” is to be construed in accordance with  section 7 (2) .

#### Commencement

38

38.1

This section and sections  35 ,  36 ,  37  and  39  come into force the day
after Royal Assent.

38.2

The other provisions of this Act come into force on such day as the Scottish
Ministers may by regulations appoint.

38.3

Regulations under this section may—

38.3.a

make different provision for different purposes or areas,

38.3.b

include transitional, transitory or saving provision.

#### Short title

39

The short title of this Act is the Agriculture and Rural Communities
(Scotland) Act 2024.

  Purposes of support

(introduced by section 6)

##### General

###### Application

1

1.1

The purposes described in  this schedule  are the purposes for which support
may be provided under section  6 .

1.2

Support may be provided for any combination of purposes that the Scottish
Ministers consider appropriate.

1.3

Without limit to the generality of section  35 (1) , support may be provided
for the purposes of assisting—

1.3.a

different descriptions of person,

1.3.b

different types of activity,

1.3.c

activity on different types of land or land with different properties or
characteristics, and

1.3.d

activity on land in different areas.

##### Agriculture, food and drink

###### Farming etc.

2

2.1

Assisting persons to carry out agricultural activities.

2.2

For the purposes of  this schedule , references to agriculture include—

2.2.a

horticulture,

2.2.b

growing crops, including fruit, seeds and plants grown for the production of
energy or other non-food purposes,

2.2.c

dairy farming,

2.2.d

livestock breeding and keeping (including apiculture),

2.2.e

deer and game farming,

2.2.f

the use of land as grazing land, meadow land, osier land,

2.2.g

market gardens and nursery grounds, and

2.2.h

the use of land for woodlands where that use is ancillary to the farming of
the land for other agricultural purposes, including—

2.2.h.i

providing shelter to livestock,

2.2.h.ii

reducing flood risk,

2.2.h.iii

reducing soil loss,

2.2.h.iv

reducing risks to wader birds, including curlew.

2.3

In this paragraph, “ horticulture ” means the growing and harvesting of
horticultural crops, including fruit, vegetables, tubers, mushrooms, herbs,
bush and tree nuts and seeds.

###### Particular products or sectors

3

3.1

Assisting persons to produce (or produce in a particular way) a product listed
in sub-paragraph  (3)  with a view to—

3.1.a

ensuring that agricultural activity (or activity of a particular type)
continues or evolves to support a transition to a sustainable land management
regime in a particular area or on a particular type of land,

3.1.b

ensuring that agricultural activity of a particular type continues,

3.1.c

contributing to the economic or social wellbeing of an area,

3.1.d

delivering an environmental benefit (such as the preservation of wildlife or a
natural habitat).

3.2

This purpose includes assisting persons to undertake an ancillary activity in
respect of a product listed in sub-paragraph  (3) .

3.3

The products are—

3.3.a

cereals,

3.3.b

oilseeds,

3.3.c

protein crops,

3.3.d

grain legumes,

3.3.e

flax,

3.3.f

hemp,

3.3.g

wool,

3.3.h

nuts,

3.3.i

herbs,

3.3.j

starch potato,

3.3.k

milk and milk products,

3.3.l

seeds,

3.3.m

sheep meat, pig meat and goat meat,

3.3.n

beef and veal,

3.3.o

poultry meat and eggs,

3.3.p

venison,

3.3.q

dried fodder,

3.3.r

hops,

3.3.s

sugar beet,

3.3.t

cane and chicory,

3.3.u

fruit and vegetables, and

3.3.v

short rotation coppice.

3.4

In  this paragraph , an “ancillary activity” is an activity of selling,
marketing, preparing, packaging, processing or distributing a product.

###### Food and drink

4

4.1

Assisting persons to—

4.1.a

produce or process food,

4.1.b

use organic practices, methods or systems for food production or processing,

4.1.c

meet certification requirements for organic food production or processing,

4.1.d

encourage agricultural and scientific innovation.

4.2

This purpose includes assisting persons to undertake an ancillary activity in
respect of the production or processing of food.

4.3

In  this paragraph , an “ancillary activity” is an activity of selling,
marketing, preparing, packaging or distributing food.

4.4

In this schedule, a reference to—

4.4.a

food includes drinks, and

4.4.b

producing food includes hunting or catching wild animals, or picking wild
plants, for food.

4.5

For the purposes of this paragraph, “ animal ” means a vertebrate (other than
a human) or invertebrate.

##### Forestry

###### Forestry

5

5.1

Assisting persons to—

5.1.a

create areas of woodland (except, or only to the extent permitted, on
specified land),

5.1.b

manage woodland (and the creation of new areas of woodland) in a sustainable
way, including by—

5.1.b.i

preparing plans for the creation and management of woodland,

5.1.b.ii

undertaking conservation, and

5.1.b.iii

improving woodlands, access to areas of woodland and woodland infrastructure,

5.1.c

develop and use systems in which trees are grown in combination with
agricultural activity,

5.1.d

prevent damage to trees and woodland from fires, natural disasters and other
adverse events (including the outbreak of a disease or pests) and restore
trees and woodland after such events,

5.1.e

undertake an ancillary activity.

5.2

For the purpose of sub-paragraph (1)(a), “ specified land ” means land of such
description as is specified in regulations made under section 15 as being
unsuitable for woodland.

5.3

In  this paragraph , an “ancillary activity” is an activity of selling,
marketing, preparing, packaging, processing or distributing a product derived
from a forestry activity.

5.4

This paragraph is without prejudice to the duties contained in section 2 of
the Forestry and Land Management (Scotland) Act 2018 (duty to promote
sustainable forest management).

##### Rural communities and economy

###### Venison supply chains and infrastructure

6

Assisting persons who work in, operate, or seek to establish venison supply
chains and infrastructures, such as deer larders and access to carcass
removal.

###### Rural communities

7

7.1

Assisting persons—

7.1.a

to live, work or operate in rural areas (or assist or encourage others to do
so),

7.1.b

to invest in infrastructure and services in and for rural areas.

7.2

Assisting persons living, working or operating in a rural area to—

7.2.a

produce and implement strategies for the development of the area, including
identification of rural anchor institutions,

7.2.b

co-operate or act jointly with other persons for or in connection with another
purpose described in this schedule.

7.3

Assisting persons to establish or maintain a network of persons involved in
rural development.

7.4

For the purpose of this paragraph, “ rural anchor institution ” means a body,
or network of bodies, which—

7.4.a

is situated in or near a particular rural community, and

7.4.b

makes a significant contribution to the economic sustainability, resilience,
or growth of, or culture in, that community.

###### Community benefits

8

Assisting persons to create community benefits, including—

8.a

clean air,

8.b

clean water,

8.c

carbon sequestration,

8.d

biodiversity gains,

8.e

access to nature,

8.f

wider economic and social benefits.

###### Investing in rural businesses and enterprises

9

9.1

Assisting persons to—

9.1.a

start a business or enterprise (whether or not for profit)—

9.1.a.i

relating to agriculture, food production or processing, forestry, nature
restoration or other rural land use activity, or

9.1.a.ii

otherwise, in or for a rural area or community,

9.1.b

develop, sustain or change such a business or enterprise (including improving
productivity or diversifying into other activities),

9.1.c

improve the resilience of such a business or enterprise,

9.1.d

recover from or adapt to events which have (or may have) a negative impact
(including exceptional adverse events such as a natural disaster or the
outbreak of a disease or pests) on such a business or enterprise or the
activities of such a business or enterprise.

9.2

For the purposes of  this paragraph , “ enterprise ” includes co-operative
societies and similar organisations.

###### Knowledge, innovation, education and training

10

10.1

Assisting persons—

10.1.a

to establish, develop, deliver or undertake—

10.1.a.i

courses of training or professional development relating to agriculture,
forestry, food production or processing, animal health and welfare or genetic
resources, land use or related sectors (such as sectors providing services to
agriculture),

10.1.a.ii

other forms of learning and sharing information relating to those sectors,

10.1.b

to provide or obtain advice—

10.1.b.i

relating to agriculture, food production or processing, forestry, animal
health and welfare or genetic resources or other land use, or

10.1.b.ii

otherwise, relevant to persons living, working or operating in rural
communities,

10.1.c

to research, develop, introduce or test new or improved (whether in terms of
efficiency, productivity, sustainability or otherwise)—

10.1.c.i

crops and other agricultural products,

10.1.c.ii

forestry products,

10.1.c.iii

animal health and welfare or genetic resources, methods or systems,

10.1.c.iv

agricultural or forestry activities, methods or systems,

10.1.c.v

methods or systems of food production and processing,

10.1.d

to undertake other research or development activities which may—

10.1.d.i

support those living, working or operating in rural areas,

10.1.d.ii

improve or support rural land (or land use), or

10.1.d.iii

improve or support the environment,

10.1.e

to undertake ancillary activities.

10.2

In  this paragraph , “ancillary activities” include developing and maintaining
resources, digital tools or databases for or in connection with the purposes
described in  sub-paragraph (1) (a)  to  (d) .

10.3

For the purposes of this paragraph, “ animal ” means a vertebrate (other than
a human) or invertebrate.

###### Integrated land management

11

11.1

Assisting persons to develop and implement integrated land management plans.

11.2

An integrated land management plan is a plan—

11.2.a

agreed between a person and a relevant authority,

11.2.b

which provides for the management and use of land and natural resources in
such manner and with a view to achieving such an outcome as the plan may
specify.

11.3

In  this paragraph , “ relevant authority ” means the Scottish Ministers, a
local authority, a national park authority or such other authority with
functions relating to land management as the Scottish Ministers consider
appropriate.

###### Quality schemes and producer groups

12

Assisting persons to establish or participate in—

12.a

schemes or programmes which certify that a particular agricultural product,
forestry product (or a by-product)—

12.a.i

meets, or is produced according to, standards set by the organisers of the
scheme or programme,

12.a.ii

is produced in a particular place or in a particular way,

12.b

groups of producers of particular agricultural or forestry products.

###### Preservation of historic and cultural sites

13

Assisting persons to protect or enhance the conditions of sites of historic or
cultural interest.

###### Recreational access to land

14

Assisting persons to provide, maintain, facilitate and improve access for
recreation to land (including land covered with water) in rural areas.

###### Nature-based economy

15

Assisting persons to invest in nature-based enterprises in rural areas.

##### Rural land management and the environment

###### Plants and soil

16

Assisting persons to promote, protect or improve—

16.a

plant health,

16.b

plant genetic resources,

16.c

soil health and quality, including, in particular—

16.c.i

the physical, chemical and biological condition of the soil, determining its
capacity to function as a vital living system and to provide ecosystem
services,

16.c.ii

the carbon capacity of the soil.

###### Greenhouse gases and climate change

17

17.1

Assisting persons to—

17.1.a

implement measures to monitor and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from
agriculture,

17.1.b

take action in respect of those parts of the climate change plan as apply to
the sectors of agriculture, forestry, land use and land use change,

17.1.c

adapt to or mitigate against changes to the natural environment (whether
attributable to climate change or otherwise),

17.1.d

take action in respect to any relevant plan, policies or objectives relating
to agriculture, forestry, land use and land use change.

17.2

In  this paragraph , “ greenhouse gas ” has the same meaning as in section 10
of the Climate Change (Scotland) Act 2009.

17.3

In  this paragraph , “ climate change plan ” means the climate change plan
prepared and laid before Parliament under section 35 of the Climate Change
(Scotland) Act 2009 and the reference to particular sectors are to be
construed in accordance with that section.

###### Natural environment

18

18.1

Assisting persons to carry out activities that monitor, preserve, protect,
improve or restore biodiversity and the natural environment (in any respect).

18.2

Assisting persons to set aside land for the natural environment and to prevent
further biodiversity loss.

18.3

Assisting persons to carry out deer management activities in order to enhance
or protect the natural environment.

18.4

Compensating persons in respect of additional costs incurred and income lost
by the person in consequence of the implementation of environmental
improvement measures including, in particular, measures taken in consequence
of an enactment or international agreement.

18.5

Assisting persons to carry out activities that preserve or protect land,
water, the water holding capacity of land or other resources from the natural
environment or human activity (for example, by promoting flood resilience or
controlling invasive non-native species).

18.6

Assisting persons who have sustained loss or damage in consequence of—

18.6.a

the reintroduction of a native species of plant or animal (including species
which were, but are no longer, native to the area of reintroduction by reason
of having become extinct in part or all of Scotland),

18.6.b

the activity of a species of wild animal—

18.6.b.i

which is considered by the Scottish Ministers to have conservation value, and

18.6.b.ii

the killing or control of which is limited or prohibited by an enactment or an
agreement (for example, a lease or other land management agreement).

18.7

For the purposes of this paragraph, “ animal ” means a vertebrate (other than
a human) or invertebrate.

###### Animals

19

19.1

Assisting persons to promote, protect or improve—

19.1.a

animal health and welfare,

19.1.b

animal genetic resources.

19.2

For the purposes of this paragraph, “ animal ” means a vertebrate (other than
a human) or invertebrate.

##### Administrative and technical support and monitoring

###### Administrative and technical support

20

Assisting persons to—

20.a

understand and access the support to which a person is entitled under this
Act,

20.b

comply with the requirements of a scheme or any condition imposed in
connection with support provided to the person or to which the person may be
entitled.

###### Monitoring and reporting on effectiveness of support

21

Assisting persons to monitor, gather data, prepare reports on, or otherwise
provide information in relation to assessing the effectiveness of support
provided under this Act.

  Repeals and minor modifications

(introduced by section 34)

##### Repeals and revocations

      Enactment Extent of repeal or revocation   Small Landholders (Scotland)
Act 1911 Section 4. Section 6. Small Holding Colonies (Amendment) Act 1918
Section 1. Land Settlement (Scotland) Act 1919 Section 1(1) and (2). Section
3. Section 5. Section 6(5). In section 7, the words “, or the Small Holding
Colonies Acts, 1916 and 1918,”. Section 8. Section 26. Schedule 1. Small
Holdings and Allotments Act 1926 The whole Act. Agricultural Land
(Utilisation) Act 1931 The whole Act. Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions)
Act 1943 The whole Act. Hill Farming Act 1946 In section 1(3), the definitions
of “livestock rearing land” and “livestock rearing purposes”. Section 24(4).
Section 34. In section 38, the definitions of “livestock rearing land” and
“livestock rearing purposes”. Agriculture (Artificial Insemination) Act 1946
The whole Act. Agriculture (Scotland) Act 1948 Section 35. In section 55,
paragraph (d). Section 56. Section 57. Sections 63 to 65. Section 70. Section
73. Section 75. Section 76. Schedule 3. Schedule 8. Agriculture (Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act 1949 The whole Act. Livestock Rearing Act 1951 Section 1(3).
Section 8. Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1954 The whole Act.
Agriculture Act 1957 The whole Act. Agriculture Act 1958 In section 9(1), the
definitions of “agricultural holding”, “lease”, ““landlord” and “tenant””,
“Land Court”, “Scottish Act of 1948” and “Scottish Act of 1949”. Section 10(4)
and (5). Agricultural Marketing Act 1958 Section 22. Sections 24 to 27.
Section 28(1) and (6). Section 32(1) to (3). Section 33. In section 47(1), the
words “or in any recommendations of an Agricultural Marketing Reorganisation
Commission published in pursuance of this Act”. In section 47(2), the words
“or Agricultural Marketing Reorganisation Commission”. Section 51. In Part 6
of schedule 3, paragraph 6. Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1963
The whole Act. Agriculture Act 1967 Sections 26 to 29. Section 35. Section 37.
Section 39. Section 40. Sections 45 to 57. Section 63. Section 64. Sections 68
to 72. Section 74. In section 75(2), the definitions of “appropriate
minister”, “assignment”, “heritable security”, “land”, “local authority” and
“pension”. Section 75(3) to (7). Schedules 3 to 7. Agriculture (Miscellaneous
Provisions) Act 1968 In section 8(1), the definition of “agricultural land”.
Section 8(3). Section 46. Agriculture Act 1970 Section 29. Section 30. Section
32. Section 33. Section 106. Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1972
Section 9(2) to (5). Section 10. Section 12. Section 16. Section 17. Section
18. Section 24. Agriculture (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1976 Section 6. Pig
Industry Levy Act 1983 The whole Act. Agriculture (Amendment) Act 1984 The
whole Act. Food Act 1984 The whole Act. Agriculture Act 1986 Sections 17 to
20. Section 23A. Farm Land and Rural Development Act 1988 Section 1. Section
3. Section 4. Food Safety Act 1990 In schedule 2, paragraphs 12 to 15.
Agriculture and Forestry (Financial Provisions) Act 1991 Section 3.
Agriculture Act 1993 Sections 1 to 19. Sections 22 to 24. Section 54(3).
Section 56. Section 58. Section 60. In section 62(4), “17, 23,”. The Scotland
Act 1998 (Consequential Modifications) Order 2000 In the schedule, paragraphs
1, 2 and 6. Abolition of Feudal Tenure etc. (Scotland) Act 2000 In schedule
12, paragraph 31. Agriculture (Retained EU Law & Data) (Scotland) Act 2020
Section 8.

##### Minor modifications

1

1.1

The Agricultural Wages (Scotland) Act 1949 is modified by sub-paragraph  (2) .

1.2

For section 13, substitute—

########### Annual Reports

1.2.13

1.2.13.1

The Board must, before such date as the Scottish Ministers may direct, prepare
and send to the Scottish Ministers a report of the Board’s proceedings under
this Act during the preceding year.

1.2.13.2

The Scottish Ministers must prepare a report on the Scottish Ministers’
proceedings under this Act during that year.

1.2.13.3

As soon as reasonably practicable after the Scottish Ministers have prepared
the report, under subsection  (2) , the Scottish Ministers must lay a copy of
that report, and the report sent to them under subsection  (1) , before the
Scottish Parliament.

.

2

2.1

The Agricultural Marketing Act 1958 is modified by sub-paragraph  (2) .

2.2

In section 5(4), for “eighty of the Agriculture Act, 1947” substitute  “18 of
the Agriculture (Retained EU Law and Data) Scotland Act 2020” .

