Title: Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022
Date: 2024-07-26
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/40

## Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022

      Most Gracious Sovereign           W e,  Your Majesty’s most dutiful and
loyal subjects, the Commons of the United Kingdom in Parliament assembled,
towards raising the necessary supplies to defray Your Majesty’s public
expenses, and making an addition to the public revenue, have freely and
voluntarily resolved to give and to grant unto Your Majesty the tax
hereinafter mentioned; and do therefore most humbly beseech Your Majesty that
it may be enacted, and be it enacted by the Queen’s most Excellent Majesty, by
and with the advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and
Commons, in this present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the
same, as follows:—

### Charge to tax

#### Charge to tax

1

1.1

If a company carries on a ring fence trade in a qualifying accounting period,
a sum equal to   35%   of its levy profits for that period is to be charged on
the company as if it were an amount of corporation tax chargeable on it.

1.2

The charge is referred to in this Act as “ energy (oil and gas) profits levy ”
(or as “the levy”).

1.3

A qualifying accounting period is an accounting period of a company which—

1.3.a

begins on or after 26 May 2022, and

1.3.b

ends on or before   31 March 2028 ,

(but see also sections 15 and 16 for provision about a case where a company’s
accounting period straddles either of those dates).

1.4

A company’s levy profits or loss for a qualifying accounting period are the
amount which, on the following assumptions, would be determined for
corporation tax purposes to be the company’s ring fence profits or loss for
that period.

1.5

The assumptions are that—

1.5.a

the company has incurred such additional expenditure (if any) in that period
as is provided for by section 2 (3) ,

1.5.b

that additional expenditure is allowable as a deduction in calculating the
amount of the profits or loss of any ring fence trade of the company for the
period,

1.5.c

financing costs and decommissioning costs are left out of account in
calculating the amount of the profits or loss of any ring fence trade of the
company for the period (see also sections 8 and 9),

1.5.d

any amount that would otherwise be brought into account under section 301 of
CTA 2010 (effect of repayment of petroleum revenue tax) in calculating the
amount of the profits or loss of any ring fence trade of the company for the
period is left out of account so far as the amount is referable to the
decommissioning part of an allowable loss, and

1.5.e

no account is to be taken of any provision of Part 4, 5 or 5A of CTA 2010
(loss relief, group relief and group relief for carried forward losses) or of
sections 303A to 303D of that Act (use of non-decommissioning losses of ring
fence trades).

1.6

For the purposes of subsection  (5)(d)  an amount of petroleum revenue tax
which is repaid as mentioned in section 301(1) of CTA 2010 is referable to the
decommissioning part of an allowable loss so far the allowable loss giving
rise to the repayment is attributable, on a just and reasonable basis, to
expenditure allowable under section 3(1)(i) or (j) of OTA 1975.

1.7

In this Act any reference to the qualifying levy profits or loss of a company
for an accounting period are to the levy profits or loss for the period as
determined in accordance with subsections  (4)  and  (5) .

1.8

If a company makes a qualifying levy loss for an accounting period, relief may
be available for some or all of the loss in accordance with—

1.8.a

Part 1 of Schedule 1 (carry back or forward of qualifying levy losses), or

1.8.b

Part 2 of that Schedule (group relief for qualifying levy losses).

1.9

In accordance with section 11, the charging of the levy as if it were an
amount of corporation tax is to be taken as applying all enactments applying
generally to corporation tax.

### Relief for investment expenditure

#### Additional expenditure treated as incurred for purposes of section 1

2

2.1

This section applies for the purposes of section 1 if, in a qualifying
accounting period, a company has incurred investment expenditure.

2.2

Expenditure is “investment expenditure” so far as—

2.2.a

it is capital expenditure, operating expenditure or leasing expenditure,

2.2.b

it is incurred for the purposes of oil-related activities,

2.2.c

it is not incurred for disqualifying purposes, and

2.2.d

it does not consist of financing costs or decommissioning costs.

2.3

For the purposes of section 1 the company is to be treated as if, in addition
to the investment expenditure (“the IE”) incurred by it in the accounting
period, it had incurred in that period—

2.3.a

expenditure of an amount equal to 80% of the amount of the IE, in a case where
the expenditure is capital expenditure on the de-carbonisation of its upstream
petroleum production, and

2.3.b

expenditure of an amount equal to 29% of the amount of the IE, in any other
case.

2.4

For the purposes of this section, if investment expenditure is incurred partly
for the purposes of oil-related activities and partly for other purposes, the
expenditure is to be attributed to the oil-related activities on a just and
reasonable basis.

2.4A

For the purposes of this section, where a company incurs expenditure part of
which is capital expenditure on the de-carbonisation of its upstream petroleum
production and part of which is not, the expenditure is to be apportioned on a
just and reasonable basis.

2.5

This section needs to be read with section 6 (which prevents recycling etc of
assets to generate relief).

#### Section 2: meaning of expenditure on “de-carbonisation of upstream petroleum production”

2A

2A.1

Expenditure incurred by a company is expenditure on the “ de-carbonisation of
its upstream petroleum production ” for the purposes of section 2 if—

2A.1.a

the expenditure is incurred in qualifying circumstances, and

2A.1.b

the main purpose, or one of the main purposes, in incurring the expenditure is
to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the carrying on by the company of its
ring fence trade.

2A.2

For this purpose expenditure is incurred in qualifying circumstances if—

2A.2.a

it is incurred on the provision of an alternative energy asset which is to be
used for the purpose of generating or storing power for use by the company in
its upstream petroleum facilities,

2A.2.b

it is incurred on the modification of an asset so that it becomes an
alternative energy asset which is to be used for that purpose,

2A.2.c

it is incurred on the provision of an asset (such as a cable or substation)
where the asset is to be used to make a connection to the electric grid or to
an alternative energy asset so that (in either case) the company can use the
power generated in its upstream petroleum facilities,

2A.2.d

it is incurred for the purpose of reducing or eliminating flaring or venting,

2A.2.e

it is incurred for the purpose of capturing greenhouse gas emissions, or

2A.2.f

it is incurred for the purpose of monitoring or measuring greenhouse gas
emissions (including with a view to detecting leaks of greenhouse gas
emissions from the company’s upstream petroleum facilities).

2A.3

For the purposes of this section an asset is an alternative energy asset if
the asset generates or stores power (wholly or mainly) from sources of energy
other than fossil fuels.

2A.4

For the purposes of this section references to a company’s upstream petroleum
facilities are to any facility used by the company for the purposes of its oil
extraction activities.

2A.5

In this section—

“ the electric grid ” means— in Great Britain, anything which is a
transmission system, or a distribution system connected to a transmission
system, for the purposes of Part 1 of the Electricity Act 1989, or in Northern
Ireland, anything which is a transmission system, or a distribution system
connected to a transmission system, for the purposes of Part 2 of the
Electricity (Northern Ireland) Order 1992, “ emissions ” has the same meaning
as it has in the Climate Change Act 2008 (see section 97), “ fossil fuel ” has
the meaning given by section 32M of the Electricity Act 1989, and “ greenhouse
gas ” has the same meaning as it has in the Climate Change Act 2008 (see
section 92).

#### Section 2: meaning of “operating expenditure”

3

3.1

Expenditure incurred by a company is “ operating expenditure ” for the
purposes of section 2 if—

3.1.a

it is incurred for the purpose of increasing—

3.1.a.i

the rate at which oil is extracted or the reserves of oil,

3.1.a.ii

the number of years for which it is economically viable to carry out oil
extraction activities or for which a facility can be used for the purposes of
those activities, or

3.1.a.iii

the amount of tariff receipts earned by the company in respect of upstream
petroleum infrastructure,

3.1.b

it is not routine repair or maintenance expenditure, and

3.1.c

it is incurred in relation to a facility or an oil well on qualifying matters.

3.2

Expenditure is incurred in relation to a facility on qualifying matters if it
is incurred on—

3.2.a

the replacement of a valve, pump, pipeline, power generation plant or
compressor that is no longer capable of being used for the purposes of oil
extraction activities,

3.2.b

modifications to increase capacity, or availability, to carry out oil
extraction activities, or

3.2.c

modifications to enable handling of reduced volumes resulting from reduced
operating pressures or handling of different fluid compositions.

3.3

Expenditure is incurred in relation to an oil well on qualifying matters if it
is incurred on—

3.3.a

water shut off or gas shut off,

3.3.b

fracturing, or

3.3.c

the removal of sand, salt, scale or hydrates.

3.4

For the purposes of this section, where a company incurs expenditure part of
which is operating expenditure and part of which is not, the expenditure is to
be apportioned on a just and reasonable basis.

3.5

In this section “ tariff receipts ” has the meaning given by section 291A of
CTA 2010.

#### Section 2: meaning of “leasing expenditure”

4

4.1

Expenditure incurred by a company is “ leasing expenditure ” for the purposes
of section 2 so far as—

4.1.a

it represents payment in return for a mobile production or storage asset being
made available under a lease whose term is at least 5 years, and

4.1.b

on the date on which the expenditure is incurred, no company has obtained
relevant tax relief in respect of the acquisition of the asset.

4.2

But expenditure counts as leasing expenditure only so far as it exceeds the
total amount received by the company and its associated companies in respect
of any qualifying lease other than—

4.2.a

amounts received from the lessee where the parties to the lease are associated
companies, or

4.2.b

amounts previously set against expenditure under this subsection which would
otherwise have counted as leasing expenditure.

4.3

For this purpose a “ qualifying lease ” means a lease—

4.3.a

to which the company or associated company is party as lessee, and

4.3.b

in respect of which expenditure is incurred which is, or but for subsection
(2)  would have counted as, leasing expenditure.

4.4

In addition, if a sublease of an asset is entered into or modified on or after
26 May 2022, expenditure is not leasing expenditure so far as it exceeds the
total amount of leasing expenditure incurred in relation to the head lease
during the term of the sublease.

4.5

For the purposes of this section expenditure which does not represent payment
in return for an asset being made available includes (among other things)—

4.5.a

any charge for the provision of any staff or for any services,

4.5.b

any amount payable which is, or represents, a profit or premium on the cost of
the asset being made available which is paid by the company to an associated
company,

4.5.c

any amount which, in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice,
falls (or would fall) to be shown in the company’s accounts as a finance
charge in respect of a lease, or

4.5.d

any amount that can be attributed to finance costs by reference to the
interest rate implicit in the lease (which is to be taken to be the interest
rate that would apply to the lease in accordance with normal commercial
criteria, including, in particular, generally accepted accounting practice (if
applicable)).

4.6

In this section—

“ lease ” includes sublease and “ lessee ” includes sublessee, “ a mobile
production or storage asset ” means a mobile asset whose main function is the
production or storage of oil, and “ relevant tax relief ” means— relief as a
result of section 2, relief as a result of Chapter 6A of Part 8 of CTA 2010
(supplementary charge: investment allowance), or relief as a result of Chapter
9 of Part 8 of CTA 2010 (supplementary charge: cluster area allowance).

4.7

For the purposes of this section, where a company incurs expenditure part of
which represents payment in return for a mobile production or storage asset
and part of which does not, the expenditure is to be apportioned on a just and
reasonable basis.

#### Section 2: meaning of “disqualifying purposes”

5

5.1

Expenditure is incurred for disqualifying purposes for the purposes of section
2 so far as it arises directly or indirectly in connection with, or otherwise
in consequence of, any avoidance arrangements.

5.2

For this purpose arrangements are “avoidance arrangements” if—

5.2.a

the main purpose, or one of the main purposes, of the arrangements is to
secure a relevant levy advantage, and

5.2.b

it is reasonable, taking account of all the relevant circumstances—

5.2.b.i

to conclude that the arrangements are, or include steps that are, contrived,
abnormal or lacking a genuine commercial purpose, or

5.2.b.ii

to regard the arrangements as circumventing the intended limits relating to
the relief under section 2 (3)  or as otherwise exploiting shortcomings in
this Act.

5.3

For this purpose “ a relevant levy advantage ” includes—

5.3.a

relief or increased relief from the levy,

5.3.b

repayment or increased repayment of the levy,

5.3.c

avoidance or reduction of a charge to the levy or an assessment to the levy,

5.3.d

avoidance of a possible assessment to the levy,

5.3.e

deferral of a payment of the levy or advancement of a repayment of the levy,
and

5.3.f

avoidance of an obligation to deduct or account for the levy.

5.4

In this section “ arrangements ” includes any transaction, series of
transactions, scheme or arrangement, whether or not legally enforceable.

#### Recycling etc of assets to generate relief

6

6.1

Expenditure incurred at any time by a company on the acquisition of an asset
is not to count as investment expenditure for the purposes of section 2 if—

6.1.a

expenditure was incurred previously by the company or another company in
acquiring, leasing, bringing into existence or enhancing the value of the
asset, and

6.1.b

any of that expenditure has been taken into account, or would on the
applicable assumption have been taken into account, for the purposes of the
levy.

6.2

The cases to which this section applies include (for example)—

6.2.a

any case where the asset acquired is an interest in an oil field, and

6.2.b

any case where the asset is acquired in connection with a transfer to the
company of an interest in an oil field (whether or not the asset is acquired
at the time of the transfer).

6.3

In this section—

6.3.a

any reference to expenditure incurred by a company in leasing an asset is to
expenditure incurred by it under an agreement under which the asset was leased
to the company,

6.3.b

any reference to the applicable assumption in the case of any expenditure
incurred at any time is to the assumption that this Act were fully in force
and applied to expenditure incurred at that time, and

6.3.c

any reference to an interest in an oil field is to the whole or part of the
equity in an oil field.

#### When investment expenditure is incurred

7

7.1

In determining for the purposes of this Act when a company has incurred
investment expenditure—

7.1.a

in the case of capital expenditure, section 5 of CAA 2001 (when capital
expenditure is incurred) applies as it applies for the purposes of that Act,
and

7.1.b

in the case of operating expenditure or leasing expenditure, the expenditure
is treated as incurred on the date on which it is paid.

7.2

Any investment expenditure which is (or is treated as) incurred before 26 May
2022 or after   31 March 2028   is to be left out of account in determining a
company’s levy profits or loss for any qualifying accounting period.

### Financing and decommissioning costs

#### Meaning of “financing costs” etc

8

8.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Act.

8.2

“ Financing costs ” means the costs of debt finance.

8.3

In calculating the costs of debt finance for an accounting period of a company
the matters to be taken into account include—

8.3.a

any costs giving rise to debits in respect of debtor relationships of the
company under Part 5 of CTA 2009 (loan relationships), other than debits in
respect of exchange losses from such relationships,

8.3.b

any exchange gain or loss from a debtor relationship of the company in
relation to debt finance,

8.3.c

any credit or debit falling to be brought into account in accordance with Part
7 of CTA 2009 (derivative contracts) in relation to debt finance,

8.3.d

the financing cost implicit in a payment under a finance lease,

8.3.e

if the company is the lessee under a right-of-use lease which is a long
funding finance lease, any costs falling, in accordance with generally
accepted accounting practice, to be treated in the accounts of the company as
interest expenses,

8.3.f

if the company is the lessee under a long funding operating lease, the amount
deductible in respect of payments under the lease in calculating the profits
of the lessee for corporation tax purposes (after first making against any
such amount any reductions falling to be made as a result of section 379 of
CTA 2010 (lessee under long funding operating lease)), and

8.3.g

any other costs arising from what would be considered in accordance with
generally accepted accounting practice to be a financing transaction.

8.4

If an amount representing the whole or part of a payment falling to be made by
a company—

8.4.a

falls (or would fall) to be treated as a finance charge, or an interest
expense, under a finance lease for the purposes of accounts which relate to
that company and one or more other companies and are prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting practice, but

8.4.b

is not so treated in the accounts of the company,

the amount is to be treated as a financing cost within subsection  (3)(d) .

8.5

If—

8.5.a

in calculating the qualifying levy profits or loss of a company for an
accounting period, an amount falls to be left out of account as a result of
subsection  (3)(d) , but

8.5.b

the whole or any part of that amount is repaid,

the repayment is also to be left out of account in calculating the qualifying
levy profits or loss of the company for any qualifying accounting period.

8.6

In this section “ finance lease ” means a lease which—

8.6.a

under generally accepted accounting practice—

8.6.a.i

falls (or would fall) to be treated, in the accounts of the lessee or a person
connected with the lessee, as a finance lease or loan, or

8.6.a.ii

is comprised in arrangements which fall (or would fall) to be so treated, or

8.6.b

if the lease is a right-of-use lease—

8.6.b.i

would fall to be treated in those accounts as a finance lease, or

8.6.b.ii

is comprised in arrangements which would fall to be so treated,

were the lessee or person connected with the lessee required under generally
accepted accounting practice to determine whether the lease falls, or
arrangements fall, to be so treated.

8.7

For the purposes of applying subsection  (6)(b) , the lessee and any person
connected with the lessee are to be treated as being companies which are
incorporated in a part of the United Kingdom.

8.8

In this section—

      “ accounts ”, in relation to a company, includes accounts which—
relate to two or more companies of which that company is one, and
are drawn up in accordance with generally accepted accounting practice,
“ debtor relationship ” has the meaning given by section 302(6) of CTA 2009,
“exchange gains” and “exchange losses” are to be read in accordance with
section 475 of CTA 2009,           “ lease ” means any arrangements which
provide for an asset to be leased or otherwise made available by a person to
another person (“ the lessee ”), and           “ long funding finance lease ”,
“ long funding operating lease ” and “ right-of-use lease ” have the meanings
given in Part 2 of CAA 2001 (see section 70YI(1) of that Act).

#### Meaning of “decommissioning costs”

9

9.1

This section applies for the purposes of this Act.

9.2

“ Decommissioning costs ” means any expenditure which—

9.2.a

is decommissioning expenditure or site restoration expenditure, and

9.2.b

qualifies for a capital allowance.

9.3

In this section “ decommissioning expenditure ” means expenditure incurred in
connection with—

9.3.a

demolishing plant or machinery,

9.3.b

preserving plant or machinery pending its reuse or demolition,

9.3.c

preparing plant or machinery for reuse, or

9.3.d

arranging for the reuse of plant or machinery,

and the expression “plant or machinery” has the same meaning here as it has in
Part 2 of CAA 2001.

9.4

In determining whether expenditure is incurred on preserving plant or
machinery pending its reuse or demolition, it does not matter whether the
plant or machinery is reused, is demolished or is partly reused and partly
demolished.

9.5

In determining whether expenditure is incurred on preparing plant or machinery
for reuse, or on arranging for the reuse of plant or machinery, it does not
matter whether the plant or machinery is in fact reused.

9.6

In this section “ site restoration expenditure ” means expenditure which is
incurred on the restoration of—

9.6.a

the site of a source to the working of which the ring fence trade concerned
relates (or related), or

9.6.b

land used in connection with working such a source.

9.7

For this purpose “ restoration ” includes the matters set out in section
416ZA(7) of CAA 2001.

### Qualifying levy losses

#### Relief for qualifying levy losses

10

Schedule 1 makes provision about relief for qualifying levy losses.

### Management and administration etc

#### Application of corporation tax provisions

11

11.1

The provisions of section 1 (1)  relating to the charging of a sum as if it
were an amount of corporation tax are to be taken as applying all enactments
applying generally to corporation tax.

11.2

But this is subject to—

11.2.a

the provisions of the Corporation Tax Acts,

11.2.b

any necessary modifications, and

11.2.c

subsection  (5) .

11.3

The enactments mentioned in subsection (1) include—

11.3.a

those relating to returns of information and the supply of accounts,
statements and reports,

11.3.b

those relating to the assessing, collecting and receiving of corporation tax,

11.3.c

those conferring or regulating a right of appeal, and

11.3.d

those concerning administration, penalties, interest on unpaid tax and
priority of tax in cases of insolvency under the law of any part of the United
Kingdom.

11.4

Accordingly—

11.4.a

TMA 1970 is to have effect as if any reference to corporation tax included a
sum chargeable on a company under section 1 (1)  as if it were an amount of
corporation tax, and

11.4.b

the enactments referred to in subsection  (3)(a)  to  (d)  apply for the
purposes of the levy subject to any modifications necessary to take account of
the provision made by Schedule 1 or by any other provision of this Act,

but nothing in this subsection is to be taken to limit subsections  (1)  to
(3) .

11.5

In the Corporation Tax (Treatment of Unrelieved Surplus Advance Corporation
Tax) Regulations 1999 ( SI 1999/358 ) or any further regulations made under
section 32 of FA 1998 (unrelieved surplus advance corporation tax)—

11.5.a

references to corporation tax do not include a sum chargeable on a company
under section 1 (1)  as if it were corporation tax, and

11.5.b

references to profits charged to corporation tax do not include qualifying
levy profits.

#### Requirement to provide information about payments

12

12.1

This section applies if—

12.1.a

the levy is chargeable on a company (“the chargeable company”) for a
qualifying accounting period, and

12.1.b

a payment is made (whether or not by the company) that is wholly or partly in
respect of the levy.

12.2

The responsible company must give notice to an officer of Revenue and Customs,
on or before the date the payment is made, of the amount of the payment that
is in respect of the levy.

12.3

The “responsible company” is—

12.3.a

in a case where the chargeable company is party to relevant group payment
arrangements, the company that is, under those arrangements, to discharge the
liability of the chargeable company to pay the levy for the accounting period,
and

12.3.b

in any other case, the chargeable company.

12.4

“ Relevant group payment arrangements ” means arrangements under section
59F(1) of TMA 1970 (arrangements for paying corporation tax on behalf of group
members) that relate to the accounting period.

12.5

The requirement in subsection  (2)  is to be treated, for the purposes of Part
7 of Schedule 36 to FA 2008 (information and inspection powers: penalties), as
a requirement in an information notice.

12.6

This section is subject to any provision to the contrary in regulations under
section 59E of TMA 1970 (further provision as to when corporation tax is due
and payable).

#### Adjustments

13

13.1

This section applies if there is any alteration in a company’s ring fence
profits or loss for an accounting period after this Act has effect in relation
to the profits or loss.

13.2

Any necessary adjustments to the operation of this Act (whether in relation to
the profits or loss or otherwise) are to be made.

### Final provisions

#### Consequential provision

14

Schedule 2 contains amendments of enactments that are consequential on the
provision made by this Act.

#### Transitional provision for accounting periods straddling 26 May 2022

15

15.1

In the case of an accounting period (a “straddling period”) beginning before
26 May 2022 and ending on or after that date—

15.1.a

this Act is to apply as if so much of the straddling period as falls before
that date, and so much of the straddling period as falls on or after that
date, were separate accounting periods, and

15.1.b

the company’s levy profits or loss determined for the straddling period (on
the assumption that the whole of that period were a qualifying accounting
period) are apportioned to the two separate accounting periods in accordance
with section 17.

15.2

In the case of a straddling period, the Instalment Payments Regulations 1998
are to apply separately—

15.2.a

in relation to the levy, and

15.2.b

in relation to any other tax chargeable on the company.

15.3

In their application as a result of subsection  (2)(a) , the Instalment
Payments Regulations 1998 are to have effect in relation to the levy as if—

15.3.a

the deemed accounting period treated under subsection  (1)(a)  as beginning on
26 May 2022 were an accounting period for the purposes of those Regulations,
and

15.3.b

the levy were chargeable for that period.

15.4

Any reference in the Instalment Payments Regulations 1998 to the total
liability of a company is accordingly to be read—

15.4.a

in their application as a result of subsection  (2)(a) , as a reference to the
levy, and

15.4.b

in their application as a result of subsection  (2)(b) , as a reference to the
amount that would be the company’s total liability for the straddling period
if the levy were left out of account.

15.5

For the purposes of the Instalment Payments Regulations 1998—

15.5.a

a company is to be regarded as a large company as respects the deemed
accounting period under subsection  (1)(a)  only if it is a large company for
those purposes as respects the straddling period, and

15.5.b

any question whether a company is a large company as respects the straddling
period is to be determined as it would have been determined apart from section
1.

#### Transitional provision for accounting periods straddling  

16

16.1

In the case of an accounting period (a “straddling period”) beginning on or
before   31 March 2028   and ending after that date—

16.1.a

this Act is to apply as if so much of the straddling period as falls on or
before that date, and so much of the straddling period as falls after that
date, were separate accounting periods, and

16.1.b

the company’s levy profits or loss determined for the straddling period (on
the assumption that the whole of that period were a qualifying accounting
period) are apportioned to the two separate accounting periods in accordance
with section 17.

16.2

In the case of a straddling period, the Instalment Payments Regulations 1998
are to apply separately—

16.2.a

in relation to the levy, and

16.2.b

in relation to any other tax chargeable on the company.

16.3

In their application as a result of subsection  (2)(a) , the Instalment
Payments Regulations 1998 are to have effect in relation to the levy as if—

16.3.a

the deemed accounting period treated under subsection  (1)(a)  as ending on
31 March 2028   were an accounting period for the purposes of those
Regulations, and

16.3.b

the levy were chargeable for that period.

16.4

Any reference in the Instalment Payments Regulations 1998 to the total
liability of a company is accordingly to be read—

16.4.a

in their application as a result of subsection  (2)(a) , as a reference to the
levy, and

16.4.b

in their application as a result of subsection  (2)(b) , as a reference to the
amount that would be the company’s total liability for the straddling period
if the levy were left out of account.

16.5

For the purposes of the Instalment Payments Regulations 1998—

16.5.a

a company is to be regarded as a large company as respects the deemed
accounting period under subsection  (1)(a)  only if it is a large company for
those purposes as respects the straddling period, and

16.5.b

any question whether a company is a large company as respects the straddling
period is to be determined as it would have been determined apart from section
1.

#### Rules for apportioning profits or loss to separate accounting periods

17

17.1

This section determines for the purposes of sections 15 and 16 how a company’s
levy profits or loss for the straddling period are to be apportioned to the
two separate accounting periods mentioned in section 15 or 16 (as the case may
be).

17.2

The profits or loss are to be apportioned as if any claim to a capital
allowance were made for whichever of the separate accounting periods is the
period in which the capital expenditure was incurred (applying section 5 of
CAA 2001 for this purpose).

17.3

Subject to that, the receipts, expenses, assets and liabilities of the ring
fence trade are to be apportioned between the two separate accounting periods
on a just and reasonable basis.

#### Circumstances in which the levy ends early: energy security investment mechanism

17A

17A.1

This section applies if—

17A.1.a

the average price of oil over a reference period, and

17A.1.b

the average price of gas over the same period,

are at or below the average of those prices over the period of 20 years ending
with 31 December 2022 (as adjusted in accordance with section  17B ).

17A.2

The Treasury must make regulations amending—

17A.2.a

section 1(3)(b),

17A.2.b

section 7(2), and

17A.2.c

section 16,

so as to substitute the final day of that reference period for references to
what would otherwise be the final day of the levy.

17A.3

This section needs to be read with section  17B .

#### Section 17A: supplementary provision

17B

17B.1

This section applies for the purposes of section  17A .

17B.2

Every period of 6 months ending with the final day of each of the levy months
is a reference period; and for this purpose a “ levy month ” means March 2024
and every later month up to and including the month immediately before the
month in which the final day of the levy falls.

17B.3

The average price of oil, and the average price of gas, over a reference
period is to be calculated in accordance with provision made by regulations
made by the Treasury (whether by reference to a published index of prices or
otherwise).

17B.4

In the case of the reference period ending with 31 March 2024, the average
prices of oil and gas over the period of 20 years ending with 31 December 2022
(“the threshold prices”) are—

17B.4.a

in the case of oil, $71.40 per barrel, and

17B.4.b

in the case of gas, £0.54 per therm.

17B.5

In the case of reference periods ending in the financial year 2024 (namely,
the financial year beginning with April 2024), the threshold prices are—

17B.5.a

in the case of oil, $74.21 per barrel, and

17B.5.b

in the case of gas, £0.57 per therm.

17B.6

In the case of reference periods ending in any other relevant financial year—

17B.6.a

the threshold prices are taken to be the prices determined in accordance with
subsection  (7) , and

17B.6.b

any change required by that subsection is to made by reference to the
threshold prices applicable in the case of reference periods ending in the
preceding relevant financial year.

17B.7

If the consumer prices index for the December before the start of a relevant
financial year has changed from that index for the previous December—

17B.7.a

the threshold prices in the case of reference periods ending in the relevant
financial year are taken to have changed by the same percentage as the
percentage change in that index, and

17B.7.b

those prices are to be rounded up to the nearest whole cent or penny.

17B.8

Before the start of each relevant financial year, His Majesty’s Revenue and
Customs must publish the threshold prices in the case of reference periods
ending in that financial year in such manner as they consider appropriate.

17B.9

In this section—

“ consumer prices index ” means the all items consumer prices index published
by the Statistics Board, “ final day of the levy ” means the last day of what
would otherwise be the latest qualifying accounting period, and “ relevant
financial year ” means any financial year after the financial year 2024 other
than one beginning after the final day of the levy.

#### Interpretation

18

18.1

In this Act—

“ associated company ” has the same meaning as in Part 8 of CTA 2010 (see
section 271), “ decommissioning costs ” has the meaning given by section 9, “
energy (oil and gas) profits levy ” has the meaning given by section 1,   “
facility ” means a platform, an oil well, a platform well, an oil well head or
upstream petroleum infrastructure,   “ financing costs ” has the meaning given
by section 8, “ investment expenditure ” has the meaning given by section 2, “
leasing expenditure ” has the meaning given by section 4, “ the levy ” means
the energy (oil and gas) profits levy, “levy profits” or “ levy loss ” has the
meaning given by section 1, “ oil ” has the same meaning as in Part 8 of CTA
2010 (see section 278), “ oil extraction activities ” has the same meaning as
in Part 8 of CTA 2010 (see section 272), “ oil field ” has the same meaning as
in Part 8 of CTA 2010 (see section 278), “ oil-related activities ” has the
same meaning as in Part 8 of CTA 2010 (see section 274), “ operating
expenditure ” has the meaning given by section 3, “ qualifying accounting
period ” has the meaning given by section 1, “ qualifying levy loss ” has the
meaning given by section 1, “ qualifying levy profits ” has the meaning given
by section 1, “ ring fence profits ” has the same meaning as in Part 8 of CTA
2010 (see section 276),  ... “ ring fence trade ” has the same meaning as in
Part 8 of CTA 2010 (see section 277),   “ upstream petroleum infrastructure ”
means any upstream petroleum pipeline, oil processing facility or gas
processing facility (as those expressions are defined by section 90 of the
Energy Act 2011 but as if that section also applied (with the appropriate
modifications) to Northern Ireland).

18.2

In this Act—

“ CAA 2001 ” means the Capital Allowances Act 2001, “ CTA 2009 ” means the
Corporation Tax Act 2009, “ CTA 2010 ” means the Corporation Tax Act 2010,
“FA”, followed by a year, means the Finance Act of that year, “ the Instalment
Payments Regulations 1998 ” means the Corporation Tax (Instalment Payments)
Regulations 1998 ( SI 1998/3175 ), “ OTA 1975 ” means the Oil Taxation Act
1975, and “ TMA 1970 ” means the Taxes Management Act 1970.

#### Short title

19

This Act may be cited as the Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022.

## SCHEDULES

Reliefs

Section 10

##### Carry back or forward of qualifying levy losses

###### Carry back of qualifying levy losses to earlier qualifying accounting periods

1

1.1

This paragraph applies if—

1.1.a

in a qualifying accounting period, a company carrying on a ring fence trade
makes a qualifying levy loss in the period (“the loss-making period”), and

1.1.b

the company was carrying on the trade in an earlier qualifying accounting
period.

1.2

The company may make a claim for relief for the loss under this paragraph.

1.3

If the company makes a claim, the relief is given by deducting the loss from
the company’s qualifying levy profits of previous qualifying accounting
periods so far as they fall (wholly or partly) within the period of 12 months
ending immediately before the loss-making period begins.

1.4

The amount of a deduction to be made under sub-paragraph  (3)  for any
accounting period is the amount of the loss so far as it cannot be deducted
under that sub-paragraph for a subsequent accounting period.

1.5

The company’s claim must be made—

1.5.a

within the period of two years after the end of the loss-making period, or

1.5.b

within such further period as an officer of Revenue and Customs may allow.

1.6

If, for an accounting period, deductions under sub-paragraph  (3)  are to be
made for qualifying levy losses of different accounting periods, the
deductions are to be made in the order in which the losses were made (starting
with the earliest loss).

2

2.1

This paragraph applies if an accounting period falls partly within the period
of 12 months mentioned in paragraph  1(3) .

2.2

The amount of the deduction for the loss for the accounting period is not to
exceed an amount equal to the overlapping proportion of the company’s
qualifying levy profits of that period.

2.3

The overlapping proportion is the same as the proportion that the part of the
accounting period falling within the period of 12 months bears to the whole of
the accounting period.

3

3.1

Relief under paragraph  1  is not available for a loss made in a ring fence
trade unless for the loss-making period, the trade is carried on—

3.1.a

on a commercial basis, and

3.1.b

with a view to the making of a profit in the trade or so as to afford a
reasonable expectation of making such a profit.

3.2

If during the loss-making period there is a change in the way in which the
trade is carried on, it is treated as having been carried on throughout that
period in the way in which it is being carried on by the end of that period.

4

4.1

This paragraph applies if—

4.1.a

a company ceases to carry on a ring fence trade in a qualifying accounting
period, and

4.1.b

the company has made a terminal qualifying levy loss in the trade.

4.2

Paragraphs  1(3)  and  2(1)  and  (3)  have effect in relation to the terminal
qualifying levy loss as if the references to 12 months were references to 3
years.

4.3

The following are terminal qualifying levy losses made in the trade—

4.3.a

the whole of any qualifying levy loss made by the company in the trade in a
qualifying accounting period that begins during the final 12 months, and

4.3.b

the overlapping proportion of any qualifying levy loss made by the company in
the trade in a qualifying accounting period that ends, but does not begin,
during the final 12 months.

4.4

The overlapping proportion is the same as the proportion that the part of the
accounting period falling within the final 12 months bears to the whole of the
accounting period.

4.5

“ The final 12 months ” means the period of 12 months ending when the company
ceases to carry on the trade.

4.6

This paragraph does not apply if—

4.6.a

on the company ceasing to carry on the trade, any of the activities of the
trade begin to be carried on by a person who is not (or by persons any or all
of whom are not) chargeable to the levy, and

4.6.b

the company’s ceasing to carry on the trade arises directly or indirectly in
connection with, or otherwise in consequence of, arrangements the main
purpose, or one of the main purposes, of which is to secure that the preceding
provisions of this paragraph apply in relation to a loss by reason of the
cessation.

4.7

For this purpose “ arrangements ” includes any transaction, series of
transactions, scheme or arrangement, whether or not legally enforceable.

###### Carry forward of qualifying levy losses to subsequent qualifying accounting period

5

5.1

This paragraph applies if in a qualifying accounting period a company carrying
on a ring fence trade makes a qualifying levy loss in the period.

5.2

Relief for the loss is given to the company under this paragraph.

5.3

The relief is given for that part of the loss (“the unrelieved loss”) for
which no relief is given under any other provision of this Schedule.

5.4

For the purposes of the levy—

5.4.a

the unrelieved loss is carried forward to subsequent qualifying accounting
periods (so long as the company continues to carry on the ring fence trade),
and

5.4.b

the qualifying levy profits of the ring fence trade of any such period are
reduced by the unrelieved loss so far as that loss is not used under this
paragraph to reduce profits of an earlier period.

##### Group relief for qualifying levy losses

###### Introduction

6

6.1

This Part of this Schedule—

6.1.a

allows a company (“the surrendering company”) to surrender a qualifying levy
loss it has for a qualifying accounting period to another company (“the
claimant company”) that is part of the same group, and

6.1.b

enables the claimant company to claim relief from the levy for that loss.

6.2

The relief mentioned in sub-paragraph  (1)  is referred to in this Schedule as
“ levy group relief ”.

7

In this Part of this Schedule, in relation to a qualifying levy loss that a
company has for an accounting period—

“ surrender period ” means a qualifying accounting period for which the
surrendering company has the loss, and “ surrenderable amounts ” means a
qualifying levy loss so far as eligible for surrender under this Part of this
Schedule.

###### Surrender of company’s losses for an accounting period

8

If—

8.a

a surrendering company has a qualifying levy loss for a surrender period, and

8.b

the company is part of a group,

the surrendering company may surrender the loss.

###### Claims for levy group relief

9

9.1

This paragraph applies in relation to the surrendering company’s surrenderable
amounts for the surrender period under paragraph  8 .

9.2

The claimant company may make a claim for levy group relief for a qualifying
accounting period (“the claim period”) in relation to those amounts (in whole
or in part) if—

9.2.a

the surrendering company consents to the claim,

9.2.b

there is a period (“the overlapping period”) that is common to the claim
period and the surrender period, and

9.2.c

at a time during the overlapping period the surrendering company and the
claimant company are part of the same group.

9.3

More than one company may make a claim for levy group relief in relation to
any surrenderable amounts (but the giving of that relief in relation to any
claim is subject to the provisions of this Part of this Schedule).

9.4

Paragraph 70(3) and (4) of Schedule 18 to FA 1998 apply for the purposes of
any consent given under this paragraph.

###### Giving of levy group relief

10

10.1

If a claimant company makes a claim under paragraph  9 , the relief is to be
given by way of deduction from the company’s qualifying levy profits for the
claim period.

10.2

The amount of the deduction is—

10.2.a

an amount equal to the surrendering company’s surrenderable amounts for the
surrender period, or

10.2.b

if the claim is in relation to only part of those amounts, an amount equal to
that part.

10.3

The deduction under this paragraph is to be made after any relief under
paragraph  1 .

###### Limitation on amount of levy group relief to be given

11

11.1

Paragraph  10(2)  is subject to the limitation in sections 138 to 142 of CTA
2010 (general limitation on amount of group relief to be given) as if those
sections applied to levy group relief as they apply to group relief under Part
5 of that Act.

11.2

For the purposes of sub-paragraph  (1) —

11.2.a

section 138 of CTA 2010 (limitation on amount of group relief applying to all
claims) has effect as if in paragraph (b) for the words “total profits” there
were substituted  “qualifying levy profits” ,

11.2.b

section 140 of CTA 2010 (unrelieved part of claimant company’s available total
profits) has effect as if—

11.2.b.i

in subsections (1) to (4) (and in the heading), for the words “total profits”
(in each place) there were substituted  “qualifying levy profits” ,

11.2.b.ii

for subsection (7) there were substituted—

11.2.b.ii.7

In this section references to the claimant company’s “available qualifying
levy profits” are references to its qualifying levy profits (within the
meaning of the Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022) after the deduction
of any relief given under paragraph  1  of Schedule 1 to that Act.

, and

11.2.b.iii

subsection (8) were omitted, and

11.2.c

section 142 of CTA 2010 (meaning of the “overlapping period”) has effect as
if—

11.2.c.i

in subsection (1) for the words in parenthesis there were substituted  “(see
paragraph  9(2)(b)  of Schedule 1 to the Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act
2022)” , and

11.2.c.ii

in subsection (3), for the words from “group relief condition is the” to the
end there were substituted  “requirement in paragraph  9(2)(c)  of Schedule 1
to the Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022” .

###### Arrangements for transfer of companies

12

Sections 154 and 155A to 156 of CTA 2010 (arrangements for transfer of member
of group of companies etc) apply for the purposes of this Part of this
Schedule as they apply for the purposes of Part 5 of that Act but as if the
references in sections 155A(1) and 155B(1) to “or 155(3)” were omitted.

###### Payments for relief

13

13.1

This paragraph applies if—

13.1.a

a surrendering company and a claimant company have an agreement between them
in relation to qualifying levy losses of the surrendering company (“the agreed
loss amounts”),

13.1.b

relief under this Part of this Schedule is given to the claimant company in
relation to the agreed loss amounts, and

13.1.c

as a result of the agreement the claimant company makes a payment to the
surrendering company that does not exceed the total amount of the agreed loss
amounts.

13.2

The payment is not to be taken into account in calculating the qualifying levy
profits or loss of either company under section 1.

14

An amount which is, as a result of paragraph  13 , not to be taken account in
calculating qualifying levy profits or loss under section 1—

14.a

is also not to be taken into account in calculating profits or loss for
corporation tax purposes, and

14.b

is not to be regarded for those purposes as a distribution.

###### Meaning of “company” and “group”

15

In this Part of this Schedule “ company ” means any body corporate.

16

For the purposes of this Part of this Schedule, two companies are part of the
same group if—

16.a

one is the 75% subsidiary of the other, or

16.b

both are 75% subsidiaries of a third company.

##### General provision

###### Prohibition on claiming relief more than once for the same amount

17

Relief from the levy is not to be given more than once for the same amount,
whether—

17.a

by giving levy group relief and by giving some other relief (for any
accounting period) to the surrendering company, or

17.b

by giving levy group relief more than once.

###### Change in company ownership

18

Part 14 of CTA 2010 (change in company ownership) applies, with any necessary
modifications, in relation to relief under any provision of this Schedule as
it applies in relation to the corresponding relief from corporation tax.

###### Transfers of trade without a change of ownership

19

Chapter 1 of Part 22 of CTA 2010 applies, with any necessary modifications, in
relation to relief under any provision of this Schedule as it applies in
relation to the corresponding relief from corporation tax.

###### Counteracting tax advantage involving qualifying levy losses

20

20.1

A levy advantage arising by reference to a qualifying levy loss that would (in
the absence of this paragraph) arise directly or indirectly in connection
with, or otherwise in consequence of, disqualifying arrangements is to be
counteracted by the making of such adjustments as are just and reasonable.

20.2

For this purpose arrangements are “disqualifying” if—

20.2.a

the main purpose, or one of the main purposes, of the arrangements is to
obtain a levy advantage by reference to a qualifying levy loss, and

20.2.b

it is reasonable, taking account of all the relevant circumstances—

20.2.b.i

to conclude that the arrangements are, or include steps that are, contrived,
abnormal or lacking a genuine commercial purpose, or

20.2.b.ii

to regard the arrangements as circumventing the intended limits of relief
provided by this Schedule or as otherwise exploiting shortcomings in this Act.

20.3

Any adjustments required to be made under this paragraph (whether or not by an
officer of Revenue and Customs) may be made by way of—

20.3.a

an assessment,

20.3.b

the modification of an assessment,

20.3.c

amendment or disallowance of a claim,

or otherwise.

20.4

For the purposes of this paragraph “ a levy advantage ” includes—

20.4.a

relief or increased relief from the levy,

20.4.b

repayment or increased repayment of the levy,

20.4.c

avoidance or reduction of a charge to the levy or an assessment to the levy,

20.4.d

avoidance of a possible assessment to the levy,

20.4.e

deferral of a payment of the levy or advancement of a repayment of the levy,
and

20.4.f

avoidance of an obligation to deduct or account for the levy.

20.5

In this paragraph “ arrangements ” includes any transaction, series of
transactions, scheme or arrangement, whether or not legally enforceable.

  Consequential amendments

Section 14

##### TMA 1970

1

1.1

Part 5A of TMA 1970 (payment of tax) is amended as follows.

1.2

In section 59E (further provision as to when corporation tax is due and
payable), in subsection (11) after paragraph (e) insert—

1.2.f

to any sum chargeable on a company under section 1 of the Energy (Oil and Gas)
Profits Levy Act 2022 as if it were an amount of corporation tax chargeable on
the company.

1.3

In section 59F (arrangements for paying corporation tax on behalf of group
members), in subsection (6)—

1.3.a

omit “and” at the end of paragraph (c), and

1.3.b

after paragraph (d) insert

, and

1.3.b.e

to any sum chargeable on a company under section 1 of the Energy (Oil and Gas)
Profits Levy Act 2022 as if it were an amount of corporation tax chargeable on
the company.

##### FA 1998

2

2.1

Schedule 18 to FA 1998 (company tax returns, assessments and related matters)
is amended as follows.

2.2

In paragraph 1 (meaning of “ tax ”)—

2.2.a

omit the “and” at the end of the paragraph beginning “section 33 of the
Finance Act 2022”, and

2.2.b

at the end insert

, and

section 1 of the Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022.

2.3

After paragraph 7A insert—

########### Energy (oil and gas) profits levy

2.3.7B

2.3.7B.1

A company which has made any qualifying levy profits or loss in an accounting
period must include in its company tax return for the accounting period a
statement of—

2.3.7B.1.a

the qualifying levy profits or loss, and

2.3.7B.1.b

any relief which the company is given for that period under Schedule 1 to the
Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022.

2.3.7B.2

Terms used in the Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022 have the same
meaning in this paragraph as in that Act.

2.4

In paragraph 8(1) (calculation of tax payable), under the heading “Third
step”, at the end insert—

      Any amount chargeable by virtue of section 1 of the Energy (Oil and Gas)
Profits Levy Act 2022.

##### Instalment Payments Regulations 1998

3

3.1

The Instalment Payments Regulations 1998 are amended as follows.

3.2

In regulation 3 (large and very large companies), in paragraph (9), at the end
insert  “and apart from the provision made by the Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits
Levy Act 2022” .

3.3

In regulation 5AZB, in the heading, for “and adjusted ring fence profits”
substitute  “, adjusted ring fence profits and levy profits” .

3.4

In regulation 5A (instalment payments —ring fence profits and adjusted ring
fence profits)—

3.4.a

in paragraph (1)—

3.4.a.i

for “and supplementary charge” substitute  “, supplementary charge and energy
(oil and gas) profits levy” , and

3.4.a.ii

for “and adjusted ring fences profits” substitute  “, adjusted ring fence
profits and levy profits” , and

3.4.b

in paragraph (9), after “the appropriate decimal” insert—

      “ energy (oil and gas) profits levy ” has the same meaning as in the
Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022;           “ levy profits ” has the
same meaning as in the Energy (Oil and Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022;

.

##### CTA 2010

4

In section 270 of CTA 2010 (overview of Part 8: oil activities), in subsection
(1), at the end insert  “but also needs to be read with the Energy (Oil and
Gas) Profits Levy Act 2022 (which imposes a tax in relation to ring fence
profits)” .

