Title: Identity and Language (Northern Ireland) Act 2022
Date: 2024-04-02
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/2022/45

## Identity and Language (Northern Ireland) Act 2022

      B e it enacted  by the King’s most Excellent Majesty, by and with the
advice and consent of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal, and Commons, in this
present Parliament assembled, and by the authority of the same, as follows:—

### National and Cultural Identity and Language

#### National and cultural identity

1

1.1

In the Northern Ireland Act 1998 after Part 7 insert—

########## National and Cultural Identity

########### National and cultural identity principles

1.1.78F

1.1.78F.1

A public authority must in carrying out functions relating to Northern Ireland
have due regard to the national and cultural identity principles.

1.1.78F.2

The “national and cultural identity principles” are—

1.1.78F.2.a

the principle that everybody in Northern Ireland is free to—

1.1.78F.2.a.i

choose, affirm, maintain and develop their national and cultural identity, and

1.1.78F.2.a.ii

express and celebrate that identity in a manner that takes account of the
sensitivities of those with different national and cultural identities and
respects the rule of law, and

1.1.78F.2.b

the principle that public authorities should encourage and promote
reconciliation, tolerance and meaningful dialogue between those with different
national and cultural identities with a view to promoting parity of esteem,
mutual respect and understanding, and cooperation.

1.1.78F.3

In this Part, a reference to a person’s national and cultural identity is a
reference to a person’s religious belief, political opinion or racial group.

1.1.78F.4

In this section—

      “ public authority ” means an authority listed in Schedule 3 to the
Public Services Ombudsman Act (Northern Ireland)  2016 (c. 4 (N.I.)) , but
does not include—         a body referred to in note 2 to Schedule 3 but not
listed in that Schedule;           the Office of Identity and Cultural
Expression (see section 78G);                 “ racial group ” has the same
meaning as in the Race Relations (Northern Ireland) Order 1997.

1.1.78F.5

The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly may by regulations
modify  this section  for the purpose of adding authorities to or removing
authorities from the definition of “public authority”.

1.1.78F.6

Regulations under  subsection (5)  may—

1.1.78F.6.a

add an authority only if the provision adding the authority—

1.1.78F.6.a.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Assembly if it were
contained in an Act of the Assembly, and

1.1.78F.6.a.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill of the Assembly, result in that Bill
requiring the consent of the Secretary of State;

1.1.78F.6.b

add or remove an authority for a particular purpose, or in relation to
particular functions;

1.1.78F.6.c

include transitional or supplementary provision.

########### The Office of Identity and Cultural Expression

1.1.78G

1.1.78G.1

A body corporate to be known as the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression
is established.

1.1.78G.2

In this Part “ the Office ” means the Office of Identity and Cultural
Expression.

1.1.78G.3

Schedule 9A  contains provision about the Office.

########### Functions of the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression

1.1.78H

1.1.78H.1

The principal aims of the Office in exercising functions under this section
are—

1.1.78H.1.a

to promote cultural pluralism and respect for diversity in Northern Ireland;

1.1.78H.1.b

to promote social cohesion and reconciliation between those with different
national and cultural identities;

1.1.78H.1.c

to increase the capacity and resilience of people in Northern Ireland to
address issues related to differences in national and cultural identity;

1.1.78H.1.d

to support, and promote the celebration of, the cultural and linguistic
heritage of all people living in Northern Ireland.

1.1.78H.2

The Office must—

1.1.78H.2.a

promote awareness of the national and cultural identity principles,

1.1.78H.2.b

monitor and promote compliance with the duty under  section 78F (1) , and

1.1.78H.2.c

report to the Assembly about compliance with that duty.

1.1.78H.3

In carrying out the functions in  subsection (2) , the Office may in
particular—

1.1.78H.3.a

publish, and revise, guidance about—

1.1.78H.3.a.i

the duty under  section 78F (1) , including best practice for complying with
that duty, and

1.1.78H.3.a.ii

other matters relating to national and cultural identity in Northern Ireland;

1.1.78H.3.b

undertake, commission or support research into matters relating to national
and cultural identity in Northern Ireland (including at the request of the
Irish Language Commissioner or the Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the
Ulster British tradition);

1.1.78H.3.c

provide, commission or support educational programmes, engagement and training
on matters relating to national and cultural identity in Northern Ireland;

1.1.78H.3.d

provide grants to persons with aims like those described in  subsection (1) ;

1.1.78H.3.e

cooperate with persons with aims like those described in  subsection (1)
(whether or not relating to Northern Ireland).

1.1.78H.4

The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly may direct the
Office in relation to the exercise of its functions.

########### Further functions: establishing the Castlereagh Foundation

1.1.78I

1.1.78I.1

The Office may—

1.1.78I.1.a

establish a body corporate or other organisation to be known as the
Castlereagh Foundation, or

1.1.78I.1.b

provide grants for the establishment of such a body or organisation by another
person.

1.1.78I.2

A body or other organisation established or funded under subsection  (1)
must—

1.1.78I.2.a

have as its principal objective the funding and support of academic research
into identity, including national and cultural identity and shifting patterns
of identity, in Northern Ireland, and

1.1.78I.2.b

be operationally and financially independent from the Office (though this does
not affect the Office’s functions under section  78H ).

1.1.78I.3

The Office may dispose of any interest in the Castlereagh Foundation.

1.2

Schedule 1 contains provision about the Office of Identity and Cultural
Expression.

#### Irish language

2

2.1

In the Northern Ireland Act 1998 after Part 7A (inserted by  section 1 (1) )
insert—

########## The Irish Language

########### Recognition of the status of the Irish language

2.1.78J

2.1.78J.1

The purpose of this Part is to provide official recognition of the status of
the Irish language in Northern Ireland by—

2.1.78J.1.a

providing for the appointment of an Irish Language Commissioner,

2.1.78J.1.b

providing for the development of standards of best practice relating to the
use of the Irish language by public authorities, and

2.1.78J.1.c

requiring public authorities to have due regard to such standards.

2.1.78J.2

This is in addition to any other official recognition of the status of the
Irish language including, for example, in—

2.1.78J.2.a

section 28D,

2.1.78J.2.b

the North/South Co-operation (Implementation Bodies) (Northern Ireland) Order
1999 ( S.I. 1999/859 ), and

2.1.78J.2.c

provision relating to Irish-medium education.

2.1.78J.3

Nothing in this Part affects the status of the English language.

########### The Irish Language Commissioner

2.1.78K

2.1.78K.1

The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly must appoint an
Irish Language Commissioner.

2.1.78K.2

The person for the time being holding office as Irish Language Commissioner is
by that name a corporation sole.

2.1.78K.3

In this Part, “ the Commissioner ” means the Irish Language Commissioner.

2.1.78K.4

Schedule 9B  contains provision about the Commissioner.

########### Functions of the Commissioner

2.1.78L

2.1.78L.1

The principal aim of the Commissioner in exercising functions under this Part
is to enhance and protect the use of the Irish language by public authorities
in the provision of services to the public or a section of the public in
Northern Ireland.

2.1.78L.2

The Commissioner must—

2.1.78L.2.a

prepare and publish, in accordance with sections 78M and 78N, standards of
best practice relating to the use of the Irish language by public authorities,

2.1.78L.2.b

monitor and promote compliance with those standards, and

2.1.78L.2.c

investigate complaints in accordance with section 78P.

2.1.78L.3

The Commissioner may provide advice, support and guidance to public
authorities in relation to the use of the Irish language and the standards of
best practice.

2.1.78L.4

The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly may direct the
Commissioner in relation to the exercise of the Commissioner’s functions.

2.1.78L.5

In this Part, a reference to services is a reference to services whether
provided for payment or not.

########### Irish language best practice standards

2.1.78M

2.1.78M.1

The Commissioner must—

2.1.78M.1.a

prepare written standards of best practice relating to the use of the Irish
language by public authorities in the provision of services to the public or a
section of the public in Northern Ireland (“best practice standards”), and

2.1.78M.1.b

submit them to the First Minister and deputy First Minister.

2.1.78M.2

The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly may approve best
practice standards submitted under  subsection (1)  with or without
modifications.

2.1.78M.3

The Commissioner must publish best practice standards approved under
subsection (2) .

2.1.78M.4

In preparing best practice standards, the Commissioner must—

2.1.78M.4.a

have due regard to any guidance of the First Minister and deputy First
Minister acting jointly, and

2.1.78M.4.b

consult such public authorities or other persons as the Commissioner considers
appropriate.

2.1.78M.5

Best practice standards—

2.1.78M.5.a

must state the date or dates from which they are to be applicable, and

2.1.78M.5.b

may make different provision for different public authorities or different
descriptions of public authority.

########### Review and revision of best practice standards

2.1.78N

2.1.78N.1

The Commissioner must, within the period of five years beginning with the day
on which best practice standards were last published, review the operation of
those standards.

2.1.78N.2

The Commissioner may revise or withdraw best practice standards—

2.1.78N.2.a

following a review under  subsection (1) , or

2.1.78N.2.b

at any other time, if the Commissioner considers it necessary or desirable to
do so.

2.1.78N.3

The Commissioner must submit any revised best practice standards to the First
Minister and deputy First Minister.

2.1.78N.4

Subsections  (2)  to  (5)  of  section 78M  apply to revised best practice
standards as they apply to best practice standards prepared under  section 78M
(1) .

########### Duty to have regard to best practice standards

2.1.78O

2.1.78O.1

A public authority must, in providing services to the public or a section of
the public in Northern Ireland, have due regard to any published best practice
standards.

2.1.78O.2

A public authority must prepare and publish a plan setting out the steps it
proposes to take to comply with the duty in  subsection (1) .

2.1.78O.3

A public authority—

2.1.78O.3.a

may revise and re-publish the plan if the authority considers it necessary or
desirable to do so, and

2.1.78O.3.b

must revise and re-publish the plan if relevant revised best practice
standards are published in accordance with  section 78N .

2.1.78O.4

In preparing or revising a plan under this section, a public authority must
consult the Commissioner.

########### Complaints

2.1.78P

2.1.78P.1

Subsection (2)  applies in relation to a complaint to the effect that a public
authority has failed to comply with its obligations under  section 78O  if—

2.1.78P.1.a

the complaint is made by a person claiming to have been directly affected by
the failure,

2.1.78P.1.b

the complaint is made in writing to the Commissioner within the period of
three months beginning with the day on which the complainant first knew of the
matters raised in the complaint, and

2.1.78P.1.c

the Commissioner is satisfied that the complainant has notified the public
authority of the matters raised in the complaint and the authority has had
reasonable opportunity to consider them and respond.

2.1.78P.2

The Commissioner must—

2.1.78P.2.a

investigate the complaint, or

2.1.78P.2.b

provide the complainant with a written statement of the Commissioner’s reasons
for not investigating the complaint.

2.1.78P.3

If investigating the complaint, the Commissioner must—

2.1.78P.3.a

notify the complainant and public authority in writing of that fact,

2.1.78P.3.b

afford the public authority reasonable opportunity to comment on matters
raised in the complaint, and

2.1.78P.3.c

give the complainant and public authority a report setting out the
Commissioner’s findings.

2.1.78P.4

If the Commissioner finds that the public authority failed to comply with its
obligations under  section 78O , the Commissioner—

2.1.78P.4.a

may include in the report under  subsection (3)  recommendations as to how the
public authority might remedy its failure and avoid future failures, and

2.1.78P.4.b

must lay the report before the Assembly.

2.1.78P.5

An investigation under this section may be carried out in private if the
Commissioner considers it appropriate.

########### Meaning of “public authority”

2.1.78Q

2.1.78Q.1

In this Part “ public authority ” means an authority listed in Schedule 3 to
the Public Services Ombudsman Act (Northern Ireland)  2016 (c. 4 (N.I.)) , but
does not include—

2.1.78Q.1.a

the Commissioner;

2.1.78Q.1.b

the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression;

2.1.78Q.1.c

the Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition;

2.1.78Q.1.d

the implementation body to which Part 6 of the North/South Co-operation
(Implementation Bodies) (Northern Ireland) Order 1999 ( S.I. 1999/859 )
(language) applies;

2.1.78Q.1.e

a body referred to in note 2 to Schedule 3 but not listed in that Schedule.

2.1.78Q.2

The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly may by regulations
modify  this section  for the purpose of adding authorities to or removing
authorities from the definition of “public authority”.

2.1.78Q.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may—

2.1.78Q.3.a

add an authority only if the provision adding the authority—

2.1.78Q.3.a.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Assembly if it were
contained in an Act of the Assembly, and

2.1.78Q.3.a.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill of the Assembly, result in that Bill
requiring the consent of the Secretary of State;

2.1.78Q.3.b

add or remove an authority for a particular purpose, or in relation to
specified functions;

2.1.78Q.3.c

include transitional or supplementary provision.

2.2

Schedule 2  contains provision about the Irish Language Commissioner.

#### The Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition

3

3.1

In the Northern Ireland Act 1998 after Part 7B (inserted by  section 2 (1) )
insert—

########## The Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition

########### The Commissioner

3.1.78R

3.1.78R.1

The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly must appoint a
Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition.

3.1.78R.2

The person for the time being holding office as the Commissioner for the
Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition is by that name a corporation
sole.

3.1.78R.3

In this Part, “ the Commissioner ” means the Commissioner for the Ulster Scots
and the Ulster British tradition.

3.1.78R.4

Schedule 9C  contains provision about the Commissioner.

########### Functions of the Commissioner

3.1.78S

3.1.78S.1

The principal aim of the Commissioner in exercising functions under this Part
is to enhance and develop the language, arts and literature associated with
the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition in Northern Ireland (in this
Part referred to as “ the relevant language, arts and literature ”).

3.1.78S.2

The Commissioner must—

3.1.78S.2.a

promote awareness of Ulster Scots services provided by public authorities to
the public or a section of the public in Northern Ireland;

3.1.78S.2.b

provide or publish such advice, support and guidance as the Commissioner
considers appropriate to public authorities in relation to—

3.1.78S.2.b.i

developing and encouraging the relevant language, arts and literature
(including in relation to facilitating the use of Ulster Scots in the
provision of services to the public or a section of the public in Northern
Ireland);

3.1.78S.2.b.ii

the effect and implementation of the international instruments specified in
subsection (3) in relation to the relevant language, arts and literature;

3.1.78S.2.c

investigate complaints in accordance with  section 78T .

3.1.78S.3

The specified international instruments are—

3.1.78S.3.a

the Council of Europe’s Charter for Regional or Minority Languages opened for
signature on 5 November 1992,

3.1.78S.3.b

the Council of Europe’s Framework Convention for the Protection of National
Minorities opened for signature on 1 February 1995, and

3.1.78S.3.c

the Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted by the General Assembly of
the United Nations on 20 November 1989,

including any protocols which are in force in relation to the United Kingdom,
but subject to any reservations, objections or interpretative declarations by
the United Kingdom for the time being in force.

3.1.78S.4

In preparing guidance for publication, the Commissioner must consult with such
public authorities and other persons as the Commissioner considers
appropriate.

3.1.78S.5

The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly may direct the
Commissioner in relation to the exercise of the Commissioner’s functions.

3.1.78S.6

In  subsection (2) (a) , “ Ulster Scots services ” means services provided in
Ulster Scots or likely to be of particular interest to those with an interest
in the relevant language, arts and literature.

3.1.78S.7

In this Part, a reference to services is a reference to services whether
provided for payment or not.

3.1.78S.8

Nothing in this Part affects the status of the English language.

########### Complaints

3.1.78T

3.1.78T.1

Subsection (2)  applies in relation to a complaint to the effect that a public
authority did not have due regard to published facilitation guidance if—

3.1.78T.1.a

the complaint is made by a person claiming to have been directly affected by
the failure,

3.1.78T.1.b

the complaint is made in writing to the Commissioner within the period of
three months beginning with the day on which the complainant first knew of the
matters raised in the complaint, and

3.1.78T.1.c

the Commissioner is satisfied that the complainant has notified the public
authority of the matters raised in the complaint and the authority has had
reasonable opportunity to consider and respond.

3.1.78T.2

The Commissioner must—

3.1.78T.2.a

investigate the complaint, or

3.1.78T.2.b

provide the complainant with a written statement of the Commissioner’s reasons
for not investigating the complaint.

3.1.78T.3

If investigating the complaint, the Commissioner must—

3.1.78T.3.a

notify the complainant and public authority in writing of that fact,

3.1.78T.3.b

afford the public authority reasonable opportunity to comment on matters
raised in the complaint, and

3.1.78T.3.c

give the complainant and public authority a report setting out the
Commissioner’s findings.

3.1.78T.4

If the Commissioner finds that the public authority did not have due regard to
published facilitation guidance, the Commissioner—

3.1.78T.4.a

may include in the report under  subsection (3)  recommendations as to how the
public authority might have better regard to published facilitation guidance,
and

3.1.78T.4.b

may lay the report before the Assembly.

3.1.78T.5

An investigation under this section may be carried out in private if the
Commissioner considers it appropriate.

3.1.78T.6

In this section “ published facilitation guidance ” means guidance published
under  section 78S (2) (b) (i)  in relation to facilitating the use of Ulster
Scots in the provision of services to the public or a section of the public in
Northern Ireland.

########### Meaning of “public authority”

3.1.78U

3.1.78U.1

In this Part “ public authority ” means an authority listed in Schedule 3 to
the Public Services Ombudsman Act (Northern Ireland)  2016 (c. 4 (N.I.))  but
does not include—

3.1.78U.1.a

the Commissioner;

3.1.78U.1.b

the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression;

3.1.78U.1.c

the Irish Language Commissioner;

3.1.78U.1.d

the implementation body to which Part 6 of the North/South Co-operation
(Implementation Bodies) (Northern Ireland) Order 1999 ( S.I. 1999/859 )
(language) applies;

3.1.78U.1.e

a body referred to in note 2 to Schedule 3 but not listed in that Schedule.

3.1.78U.2

The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly may by regulations
modify  this section  for the purpose of adding authorities to or removing
authorities from the definition of “public authority”.

3.1.78U.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may—

3.1.78U.3.a

add an authority only if the provision adding the authority—

3.1.78U.3.a.i

would be within the legislative competence of the Assembly if it were
contained in an Act of the Assembly, and

3.1.78U.3.a.ii

would not, if it were contained in a Bill of the Assembly, result in that Bill
requiring the consent of the Secretary of State;

3.1.78U.3.b

add or remove an authority for a particular purpose, or in relation to
specified functions;

3.1.78U.3.c

include transitional or supplementary provision.

3.2

Schedule 3  contains provision about the Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and
the Ulster British tradition.

#### Use of languages other than English in proceedings

4

The Administration of Justice (Language) Act (Ireland)  1737 (c. 6)  is
repealed.

#### Use of Ulster Scots in education

5

In the Education (Northern Ireland) Order 1998 ( S.I. 1998/1759 (N.I. 13) )
after Article 89 insert—

######## Ulster Scots in education

5.89A

It shall be the duty of the Department to encourage and facilitate the use and
understanding of Ulster Scots in the education system.

### Powers of the Secretary of State

#### Concurrent powers and powers of direction

6

6.1

The Secretary of State may do anything that a Northern Ireland Minister or
Northern Ireland department could do in the exercise of an identity and
language function.

6.2

The Secretary of State may direct a Northern Ireland Minister, Northern
Ireland department or identity and language authority to do or not do anything
that the Minister, department or authority—

6.2.a

could do in the exercise of an identity and language function;

6.2.b

could otherwise do (but this is subject to  subsection (3) ).

6.3

The Secretary of State may give a direction under  subsection (2) (b)  if the
Secretary of State considers the direction appropriate—

6.3.a

for the purpose of ensuring the effective operation of an identity and
language authority, or

6.3.b

in relation to the exercise, by the Secretary of State, of another function
under this section.

6.4

After giving a direction under  subsection (2) , the Secretary of State must—

6.4.a

lay a copy of the direction before Parliament, and

6.4.b

publish the direction.

6.5

In this Part—

      “ identity and language authority ” means—         the Office of
Identity and Cultural Expression;           the Irish Language Commissioner;
the Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition;
“ identity and language function ” means—         a function conferred by or
under Parts 7A to 7C of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 other than a power to
make regulations or give a direction, or           a function ancillary to
such a function;                 “ Northern Ireland Minister ” includes the
First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly.

#### Concurrent powers and powers of direction: supplementary provision

7

7.1

The fact that a matter has not been brought to the attention of, or discussed
and agreed by, the Executive Committee of the Assembly is to be disregarded
when determining what a Northern Ireland Minister, Northern Ireland department
or identity and language authority could do for the purposes of  section 6 (1)
and  (2) .

7.2

A Northern Ireland Minister, Northern Ireland department or identity and
language authority must comply with a direction under  section 6 (2)
irrespective of whether any matter has been brought to the attention of, or
discussed and agreed by, the Executive Committee of the Assembly.

7.3

A direction under  section 6 (2)  does not require a disclosure of information
if the disclosure would contravene the data protection legislation (but in
determining whether a disclosure would do so, take into account the duty to
comply with a direction under  section 6 (2) ).

7.4

The power in section 44(1) of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 (power to call
witnesses and documents) is not exercisable in relation to an excluded person
in connection with the exercise of a function under or in accordance with a
direction under  section 6 (2) .

7.5

Subsection (4) does not apply in relation to an excluded person who is or has
been an identity and language authority, or works or has worked for or on
behalf of an identity and language authority, in connection with the person’s
time as or with the authority.

7.6

In this section—

      “ data protection legislation ” has the same meaning as in the Data
Protection Act 2018 (see section 3(9) of that Act);           “ excluded
person ” means a person—         who is or has been a Minister of the Crown,
or           who is or has been in Crown employment within the meaning of
Article 236 of the Employment Rights (Northern Ireland) Order 1996.

#### Establishing the Castlereagh Foundation

8

8.1

The Secretary of State may—

8.1.a

establish a body corporate or other organisation to be known as the
Castlereagh Foundation, or

8.1.b

provide grants for the establishment of such a body or organisation by another
person.

8.2

A body or other organisation established or funded under subsection  (1)
must—

8.2.a

have as its principal objective the funding and support of academic research
into identity, including national and cultural identity and shifting patterns
of identity, in Northern Ireland, and

8.2.b

be operationally and financially independent from the Office of Identity and
Cultural Expression (though this does not affect the Office’s functions under
section  78H  of the Northern Ireland Act 1998).

8.3

The Secretary of State may dispose of any interest in the Castlereagh
Foundation.

### Consequential and General Provision

#### Consequential amendments

9

9.1

In section 96 of the Northern Ireland Act 1998 after subsection (4A) insert—

9.1.4B

The powers to make regulations under sections 78F, 78Q and 78U are exercisable
by statutory rule for the purposes of the Statutory Rules (Northern Ireland)
Order 1979.

9.1.4C

Regulations may not be made under section 78F, 78Q or 78U unless a draft of
the regulations has been laid before and approved by resolution of the
Assembly.

9.2

In Schedule 1 to the Superannuation (Northern Ireland) Order 1972 ( S.I.
1972/1073 (N.I. 10) ) (employments to which Article 3 can apply) insert at the
appropriate place—

      A member of the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression

      Employment by the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression

      Irish Language Commissioner

      Employment by the Irish Language Commissioner

      Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition

      Employment by the Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster
British tradition

.

9.3

In Part 3 of Schedule 1 to the Northern Ireland Assembly Disqualification Act
1975 (disqualifying offices) insert at the appropriate place—

      A member of the Office of Identity and Cultural Expression.

      Irish Language Commissioner.

      Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition.

9.4

In Schedule 3 to the Public Services Ombudsman Act (Northern Ireland)  2016
(c. 4 (N.I.))  (authorities subject to investigation) insert at the
appropriate place under  “Miscellaneous” —

      The Office of Identity and Cultural Expression

      Irish Language Commissioner

      Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition

.

9.5

In Part 7 of Schedule 1 to the Freedom of Information Act 2000 (offices and
bodies which are public authorities for the purposes of the Act) insert at the
appropriate place—

      The Office of Identity and Cultural Expression.

      Irish Language Commissioner.

      Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition.

#### Commencement

10

10.1

This Part  comes into force on the day on which this Act is passed.

10.2

Parts 1  and  2  come into force on such day as the Secretary of State may by
regulations made by statutory instrument appoint.

10.3

Regulations under  subsection (2)  may appoint different days for different
purposes.

#### Extent

11

This Act extends to Northern Ireland only.

#### Short title

12

This Act may be cited as the Identity and Language (Northern Ireland) Act
2022.

## Schedules

  The Office of Identity and Cultural Expression

Section 1

  In the Northern Ireland Act 1998 after Schedule 9 insert—       Schedule 9A
The Office of Identity and Cultural Expression     Section 78G       Status
1       1     The Office is not to be regarded—     a     as a servant or
agent of the Crown, or         b     as enjoying any status, immunity or
privilege of the Crown.             2     Property of the Office is not to be
regarded as property of, or held on behalf of, the Crown.
Membership     2     The Office is to consist of—     a     a Director
appointed by the First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly, and
b     no more than five other members appointed by the First Minister and
deputy First Minister acting jointly,       each, a “member”.           Tenure
of members     3       1     Subject to the provisions of this Schedule, a
person holds office as a member in accordance with the terms of the person’s
appointment.         2     A person may not be appointed as a member for more
than five years at a time, or more than twice.         3     A person may
resign as a member by notice in writing to the First Minister and deputy First
Minister.         4     The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting
jointly may dismiss a person from office as a member by notice in writing if
satisfied that the person—     a     has without reasonable excuse failed to
discharge the functions of the office for a continuous period of three months
beginning not earlier than six months before the day of dismissal;         b
has been convicted of a criminal offence;         c     has become bankrupt or
the subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order, a debt relief order or a debt
relief restrictions order, or has made a voluntary arrangement;         d
is unable or unfit to carry out the functions of the office of a member.
5     Each of the expressions used in sub-paragraph (4)(c) has the same
meaning as in the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405
(N.I. 19) .               Members’ salary etc.     4       1     The Office
may pay to or in respect of a member such remuneration, allowances, fees and
sums for the provision of a pension as the Executive Office may determine.
2     Where a person ceases to be a member otherwise than on the expiration of
a term of office and the Executive Office determines that special
circumstances justify compensation, the Office may pay to or in respect of the
person such amount as the Executive Office may determine.         3     A
determination of the Executive Office under this paragraph requires the
approval of the Department of Finance.               Staff     5       1
The Office may appoint such number of staff as the Office may determine.
2     The terms and conditions of a person’s appointment are to be determined
by the Office; but that is subject to the provisions of this Schedule.
3     The Office may pay to or in respect of a member of staff such
remuneration, allowances, fees and sums for the provision of a pension as the
Office may determine.         4     Where a person ceases to be a member of
staff otherwise than on the expiration of a term of appointment and the Office
determines that special circumstances justify compensation, the Office may pay
to or in respect of the person such amount as the Office may determine.
5     A determination of the Office under this paragraph requires the approval
of the Executive Office and Department of Finance.               Assistance
6       1     The Executive Office may provide the Office with staff,
facilities or services for the purpose of assisting the Office in the exercise
of its functions.         2     In this Schedule, a reference to a member of
staff includes a reference to a member of staff appointed on secondment; but a
period of secondment does not affect a person’s continuity of service in the
Northern Ireland civil service.               Exercise of functions     7
Any function of the Office may be exercised by—     a     the Director, or
b     another member or member of staff authorised (whether generally or
specifically) for the purpose.               General powers     8     The
Office may do whatever the Office considers is appropriate for facilitating,
or incidental or conducive to, the exercise of the Office’s functions, other
than borrowing money.           Proceedings     9       1     The Office may
regulate its own proceedings.         2     The validity of any proceedings of
the Office is not affected by a vacancy or defective appointment.
Funding     10       1     The Executive Office may make grants to the Office
of such amounts as it determines with the approval of the Department of
Finance.         2     The Office must pay to the Executive Office any sums
received by the Office in the course of, or in connection with, the exercise
of the Office’s functions.         3     Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply to
such sums, or sums of such description, as the Executive Office may with the
approval of the Department of Finance direct.               Accounts     11
1     The Office must—     a     keep proper accounts and proper records in
relation to the accounts, and         b     prepare a statement of accounts in
respect of each financial year.             2     The statement of accounts
must be in such form and contain such information as the Executive Office may
with the approval of the Department of Finance direct.         3     The
Office must, within such period after the end of each financial year as the
Executive Office may direct, send copies of the statement of accounts relating
to that year to—     a     the Executive Office, and         b     the
Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland.             4     The
Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland must—     a     examine,
certify and report on every statement of accounts received under sub-paragraph
(3); and         b     send a copy of the report to the Executive Office.
5     The Executive Office must lay a copy of the statement of accounts and
the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland before
the Assembly.         6     In this paragraph and  paragraph 12  “ financial
year ” means—     a     the period beginning with the day on which the first
person appointed as Director takes office and ending on the 31 March following
that day, and         b     each successive period of twelve months ending on
31 March.                   Annual report     12       1     As soon as
reasonably practicable after the end of each financial year, the Office must
send to the Executive Office a report on the performance of the Office’s
functions during that year.         2     The Executive Office must lay a copy
of the report before the Assembly.               Seal and evidence     13
1     The application of the seal of the Office must be authenticated by the
signature of—     a     the Director, or         b     another member or
member of staff authorised for the purpose.             2     A document
purporting to be an instrument issued by the Office and to be duly executed
under the Office’s seal or signed on its behalf is to be received in evidence
and is, unless the contrary is proved, taken to be such an instrument.

  The Irish Language Commissioner

Section 2

  In the Northern Ireland Act 1998 after Schedule 9A (inserted by Schedule 1)
insert—       Schedule 9B     The Irish Language Commissioner     Section 78K
Status     1       1     The Commissioner is not to be regarded—     a     as
a servant or agent of the Crown, or         b     as enjoying any status,
immunity or privilege of the Crown.             2     The property held by the
Commissioner is not to be regarded as property of, or held on behalf of, the
Crown.               Tenure of office     2       1     Subject to the
provisions of this Schedule, a person holds office as the Commissioner in
accordance with the person’s terms of appointment.         2     A person may
not be appointed as Commissioner for more than five years at a time, or more
than twice.         3     A person may at any time resign as Commissioner by
notice in writing to the First Minister and deputy First Minister.         4
The First Minister and deputy First Minister acting jointly may dismiss a
person from office as Commissioner by notice in writing if satisfied that the
person—     a     has, without reasonable excuse, failed to discharge the
functions of the office for a continuous period of three months beginning not
earlier than six months before the day of dismissal;         b     has been
convicted of a criminal offence;         c     has become bankrupt or the
subject of a bankruptcy restrictions order, a debt relief order or a debt
relief restrictions order, or has made a voluntary arrangement;         d
is unable or unfit to perform the functions of the office.             5
Each of the expressions used in sub-paragraph (4)(c) has the same meaning as
in the Insolvency (Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19) .
Commissioner’s salary, etc     3       1     The Executive Office may pay to
or in respect of the Commissioner such remuneration, allowances, fees and sums
for the provision of a pension as the Executive Office may determine.
2     Where a person ceases to hold office as Commissioner otherwise than on
the expiration of a term of office and the Executive Office determines that
special circumstances justify compensation, the Executive Office may pay to or
in respect of the person such amount as the Executive Office may determine.
3     A determination of the Executive Office under this paragraph requires
the approval of the Department of Finance.               Staff     4       1
The Commissioner may appoint such number of staff as the Commissioner may
determine.         2     The terms and conditions of a person’s appointment
are to be determined by the Commissioner; but that is subject to the
provisions of this Schedule.         3     The Commissioner may pay to or in
respect of a member of staff such remuneration, allowances, fees and sums for
the provision of a pension as the Commissioner may determine.         4
Where a person ceases to be a member of staff otherwise than on expiration of
a term of appointment and the Commissioner determines that special
circumstances justify compensation, the Commissioner may pay to or in respect
of the person such amount as the Commissioner may determine.         5     A
determination of the Commissioner under this paragraph requires the approval
of the Executive Office and Department of Finance.               Assistance
5       1     The Executive Office may provide the Commissioner with staff,
facilities or services for the purpose of assisting the Commissioner in the
exercise of the Commissioner’s functions.         2     The Office of Identity
and Cultural Expression may provide the Commissioner with services for the
purpose of assisting the Commissioner in the exercise of the Commissioner’s
functions.         3     In this Schedule, a reference to a member of staff
includes a reference to a member of staff appointed on secondment; but a
period of secondment does not affect a person’s continuity of service in the
Northern Ireland civil service.               Exercise of functions     6
Any function of the Commissioner may be exercised by any member of staff of
the Commissioner who has been authorised (whether generally or specially) by
the Commissioner for the purpose.           General powers     7     The
Commissioner may do whatever the Commissioner considers appropriate for
facilitating, or incidental or conducive to, the exercise of the
Commissioner’s functions, other than borrowing money.           Funding     8
1     The Executive Office may make grants to the Commissioner of such amounts
as it determines with the approval of the Department of Finance.         2
The Commissioner must pay to the Executive Office any sums received by the
Commissioner in the course of, or in connection with, the exercise of the
Commissioner’s functions.         3     Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply to
such sums, or sums of such description, as the Executive Office may with the
approval of the Department of Finance direct.               Accounts     9
1     The Commissioner must—     a     keep proper accounts and proper records
in relation to the accounts, and         b     prepare a statement of accounts
in respect of each financial year.             2     The statement of accounts
must be in such form and contain such information as the Executive Office may
with the approval of the Department of Finance direct.         3     The
Commissioner must, within such period after the end of each financial year as
the Executive Office may direct, send copies of the statement of accounts
relating to that year to—     a     the Executive Office, and         b
the Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland.             4
The Comptroller and Auditor General must—     a     examine, certify and
report on every statement of accounts received under sub-paragraph (3), and
b     send a copy of the report to the Executive Office.             5     The
Executive Office must lay a copy of the statement of accounts and the report
of the Comptroller and Auditor General before the Assembly.         6     In
this paragraph and paragraph 10 “ financial year ” means—     a     the period
beginning with the day on which the first person appointed as Commissioner
takes office and ending on the 31 March following that day, and         b
each successive period of twelve months ending on 31 March.
Annual report     10       1     As soon as practicable after the end of each
financial year, the Commissioner must send to the Executive Office a report on
the exercise of the Commissioner’s functions during that year.         2
The Executive Office must lay a copy of the report before the Assembly.
Seal and evidence     11       1     The application of the seal of the
Commissioner must be authenticated by the signature of—     a     the
Commissioner, or         b     a member of staff authorised for the purpose.
2     A document purporting to be an instrument issued by the Commissioner and
to be duly executed under the Commissioner’s seal or signed by or on behalf of
the Commissioner is to be received in evidence and is, unless the contrary is
proved, taken to be such an instrument.               Property     12       1
Any real or personal property vested in the Commissioner vests (unless and
until disclaimed or disposed of) in the successor in office.         2
Where there is a vacancy in the office of Commissioner at the time when real
or personal property would otherwise have vested, the property vests in the
successor on appointment.

  Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster British tradition

Section 3

  In the Northern Ireland Act after Schedule 9B (inserted by Schedule 2)
insert—       Schedule 9C     Commissioner for the Ulster Scots and the Ulster
British tradition     Section 78R       Status     1       1     The
Commissioner is not to be regarded—     a     as a servant or agent of the
Crown; or         b     as enjoying any status, immunity or privilege of the
Crown.             2     The property held by the Commissioner is not to be
regarded as property of, or held on behalf of, the Crown.               Tenure
of office     2       1     Subject to the provisions of this Schedule, a
person holds office as the Commissioner in accordance with the person’s terms
of appointment.         2     A person may not be appointed as Commissioner
for more than five years at a time, or more than twice.         3     A person
may at any time resign as Commissioner by notice in writing to the First
Minister and deputy First Minister.         4     The First Minister and
deputy First Minister acting jointly may dismiss a person from office as
Commissioner by notice in writing if satisfied that the person—     a     has,
without reasonable excuse, failed to discharge the functions of the office for
a continuous period of three months beginning not earlier than six months
before the day of dismissal;         b     has been convicted of a criminal
offence;         c     has become bankrupt or the subject of a bankruptcy
restrictions order, a debt relief order or a debt relief restrictions order,
or has made a voluntary arrangement;         d     is unable or unfit to
perform the functions of the office.             5     Each of the expressions
used in sub-paragraph (4)(c) has the same meaning as in the Insolvency
(Northern Ireland) Order 1989 ( S.I. 1989/2405 (N.I. 19) .
Commissioner’s salary, etc     3       1     The Executive Office may pay to
or in respect of the Commissioner such remuneration, allowances, fees and sums
for the provision of a pension as the Executive Office may determine.
2     Where a person ceases to hold office as Commissioner otherwise than on
the expiration of a term of office and the Executive Office determines that
special circumstances justify compensation, the Executive Office may pay to or
in respect of the person such amount as the Executive Office may determine.
3     A determination of the Executive Office under this paragraph requires
the approval of the Department of Finance.               Staff     4       1
The Commissioner may appoint such number of staff as the Commissioner may
determine.         2     The terms and conditions of a person’s appointment
are to be determined by the Commissioner; but that is subject to the
provisions of this Schedule.         3     The Commissioner may pay to or in
respect of a member of staff such remuneration, allowances, fees and sums for
the provision of a pension as the Commissioner may determine.         4
Where a person ceases to be a member of staff otherwise than on expiration of
a term of appointment and the Commissioner determines that special
circumstances justify compensation, the Commissioner may pay to or in respect
of the person such amount as the Commissioner may determine.         5     A
determination of the Commissioner under this paragraph requires the approval
of the Executive Office and Department of Finance.               Assistance
5       1     The Executive Office may provide the Commissioner with staff,
facilities or services for the purpose of assisting the Commissioner in the
exercise of the Commissioner’s functions.         2     The Office of Identity
and Cultural Expression may provide the Commissioner with services for the
purpose of assisting the Commissioner in the exercise of the Commissioner’s
functions.         3     In this Schedule, a reference to a member of staff
includes a reference to a member of staff appointed on secondment; but a
period of secondment does not affect a person’s continuity of service in the
Northern Ireland civil service.               Exercise of functions     6
Any function of the Commissioner may be exercised by any member of staff of
the Commissioner who has been authorised (whether generally or specially) by
the Commissioner for the purpose.           General powers     7     The
Commissioner may do whatever the Commissioner considers appropriate for
facilitating, or incidental or conducive to, the exercise of the
Commissioner’s functions, other than borrowing money.           Funding     8
1     The Executive Office may make grants to the Commissioner of such amounts
as it determines with the approval of the Department of Finance.         2
The Commissioner must pay to the Executive Office any sums received by the
Commissioner in the course of, or in connection with, the exercise of the
Commissioner’s functions.         3     Sub-paragraph (2) does not apply to
such sums, or sums of such description, as the Executive Office may with the
approval of the Department of Finance direct.               Accounts     9
1     The Commissioner must—     a     keep proper accounts and proper records
in relation to the accounts; and         b     prepare a statement of accounts
in respect of each financial year.             2     The statement of accounts
must be in such form and contain such information as the Executive Office may
with the approval of the Department of Finance direct.         3     The
Commissioner must, within such period after the end of each financial year as
the Executive Office may direct, send copies of the statement of accounts
relating to that year to—     a     the Executive Office; and         b
the Comptroller and Auditor General for Northern Ireland.             4
The Comptroller and Auditor General must—     a     examine, certify and
report on every statement of accounts received under sub-paragraph (3); and
b     send a copy of the report to the Executive Office.             5     The
Executive Office must lay a copy of the statement of accounts and the report
of the Comptroller and Auditor General before the Assembly.         6     In
this paragraph and paragraph 10 “ financial year ” means—     a     the period
beginning with the day on which the first person appointed as Commissioner
takes office and ending on the 31 March following that day; and         b
each successive period of twelve months ending on 31 March.
Annual report     10       1     As soon as practicable after the end of each
financial year, the Commissioner must send to the Executive Office a report on
the exercise of the Commissioner’s functions during that year.         2
The Executive Office must lay a copy of the report before the Assembly.
Seal and evidence     11       1     The application of the seal of the
Commissioner must be authenticated by the signature of—     a     the
Commissioner; or         b     a member of staff authorised for the purpose.
2     A document purporting to be an instrument issued by the Commissioner and
to be duly executed under the Commissioner’s seal or signed by or on behalf of
the Commissioner is to be received in evidence and is, unless the contrary is
proved, taken to be such an instrument.               Property     12       1
Any real or personal property vested in the Commissioner vests (unless and
until disclaimed or disposed of) in the successor in office.         2
Where there is a vacancy in the office of Commissioner at the time when real
or personal property would otherwise have vested, the property vests in the
successor on appointment.

