Title: The Boiler Upgrade Scheme (England and Wales) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-09-05
Description: These Regulations, which apply in England and Wales, establish the Boiler Upgrade Scheme (“the Scheme”).
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/565

## The Boiler Upgrade Scheme (England and Wales) Regulations 2022

    Energy, England And Wales

  Made   22nd May 2022

  Coming into force   23rd May 2022

      The Secretary of State makes the following Regulations in exercise of
the powers conferred by sections 100 and 104(2) of the Energy Act 2008 . In
accordance with section 105(3)  of that Act, a draft of this instrument was
laid before Parliament and approved by a resolution of each House of
Parliament. In accordance with section 148A of the Government of Wales Act
2006  the Secretary of State has consulted the Welsh Ministers.

### Introductory provisions

#### Citation, commencement and extent

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Boiler Upgrade Scheme (England and
Wales) Regulations 2022 and come into force on the day after the day on which
they are made.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales only.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

“ air source heat pump ” means a plant  which generates heat using a
thermodynamic cycle by transferring energy stored in the form of heat in the
ambient air outside a property and uses that energy to heat a liquid;   “
boiler upgrade grant ” means the grant, the value of which has been published
under regulation 13(1), (4) or (5) which is payable by the Authority to an
installer under these Regulations;   “ boiler upgrade voucher ” has the
meaning given in regulation 15(1); “ biomass boiler ” means a plant which— is
designed and installed to burn solid biomass  to provide heat, is designed to
minimise direct heat loss to the immediate area in which it is installed, is
not capable of providing heat to a property without using a liquid to deliver
that heat, and is not designed to generate heat for the purpose of cooking
food  where that function is not able to be controlled independently of the
heating or hot water ; “ building ” means a roofed construction having walls,
for which energy is used to condition the indoor climate, and reference to a
building includes reference to a building unit in that building; “ building
unit ” means a section, floor or apartment within a building which is designed
or altered to be used separately; “ commencement date ” means the day on which
these Regulations come into force; “ commissioned ”, in relation to a plant,
means the completion of such procedures and tests as constitute, at the time
they are undertaken, the usual industry standards and practices for that type
of plant which demonstrate that it is capable of operating and generating
heat; “ connected person ”, in relation to an installer, means any person
connected to them within the meaning of section 1122 of the Corporation Tax
Act 2010 ; “ consumer code ” means a code of practice   for the purpose of
consumer protection approved by the Secretary of State under regulation
4(1)(j);   “ eligible plant ” has the meaning given in regulation 8; “
eligible property ” has the meaning given in regulation 5; “ energy
performance certificate ” has the meaning given in regulation 2(1) of the EPB
Regulations; “ the EPB Regulations ” means the Energy Performance of Buildings
(England and Wales) Regulations 2012 ; “ financial year ” means— the period
beginning with the commencement date and ending with 31st March 2023, or any
subsequent 12 month period beginning with 1st April and ending with the
following 31st March; “ grant application ” has the meaning given in
regulation 14(1); “ grant change notice ” has the meaning given in regulation
13(4);   “ grant from public funds ” means a grant made by a public authority
or by any person distributing funds on behalf of a public authority;   “
ground source heat pump ” means a plant which generates heat using a
thermodynamic cycle by transferring energy stored in the form of heat from the
ground, including water in the ground or surface water or both, and uses that
energy to heat a liquid;   “ heat network ” means a network that, by
distributing a liquid or a gas, enables the transfer of thermal energy for the
purpose of supplying heating, cooling or hot water to two or more properties
(and includes any appliance the main purpose of which is to heat or cool the
liquid or gas);   “ heat pump ” means a plant which is an air source heat pump
or a ground source heat pump   or both ; “ installer ” means a person who is
certified by the Microgeneration Certification Scheme  or a scheme— which is
equivalent to the Microgeneration Certification Scheme, and under which
installers are certified to standards equivalent to the Microgeneration
Certification Scheme’s standards by a certification body or organisation
accredited by UKAS to the standard approved by the Secretary of State under
regulation 4(1)(a); “ installer obligation ” means an obligation specified in
regulation 17; “ mains gas ” means a supply of the kind mentioned in section
5(1)(b) of the Gas Act 1986 ;   “ new-build property ” means an eligible
property that meets the requirements set out in regulation 7;   “ NOx ” means
oxides of nitrogen;   “ off-gas grid property ” means a property that is not
attached to a heat network and— is not fuelled by mains gas, there is no
record of a gas meter point at the property, and is not a new-build property;
“ original heating system ” has the meaning given in regulation 5(1)(c)(ii); “
PM ” means particulate matter; “properly made”— in the case of a grant
application, means an application which provides the information required by
regulation 14(3), and in relation to which any information specified in a
notice issued in accordance with regulation 14(4) or (5) has been received by
the Authority, in relation to a redemption application, means an application
which provides the information required by regulation 16(3), and in relation
to which any information required by a notice issued in accordance with
regulation 16(4) has been received by the Authority; “ quarter ” means a
period of three months beginning with 1st January, 1st April, 1st July, or 1st
October; “ recommendation report ” has the meaning given in regulation 4(1) of
the EPB Regulations; “ redemption application ” has the meaning given in
regulation 16(1); “ related property ”, in relation to an eligible property,
... means any building or swimming pool which is used by, or available for the
use of, an owner or occupier of that property and where the building, building
unit or swimming pool is not covered by the valid energy performance
certificate for that property; “ relevant installation standard ” has the
meaning given in paragraph 2 of Schedule 4; “ relevant financial year ” means
a financial year beginning with— the commencement date,   1st April 2023,  1st
April 2024, 1st April 2025, 1st April 2026, or 1st April 2027; “ the Scheme ”
has the meaning given in regulation 3; “ UKAS ” means the United Kingdom
Accreditation Service, a company limited by guarantee and incorporated in
England and Wales under number 3076190; “ urban area ” means an area
classified as urban in the “2011 rural-urban classification of output areas”
published by the Office for National Statistics in August 2013 .

2.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, an energy performance certificate for a
property is “valid” if—

2.2.a

it was entered on the register required to be maintained under regulation
27(1) of the EPB Regulations no more than 10 years before the date on which it
is relied on for the purposes of a grant application in relation to that
property, and

2.2.b

no other energy performance certificate for the property has since been
entered on the register.

2.3

Where there is more than one owner of a property, then any reference in these
Regulations to the owner of the property includes any person who is an owner
of the property.

2.4

For the purposes of these Regulations, a scheme is equivalent to the
Microgeneration Certification Scheme if it is approved as equivalent by the
Secretary of State.

2.5

For the purposes of these Regulations, a property does not cease to be
“fuelled by mains gas” if the supply meter point in relation to the property
is capped or clamped, where “ supply meter point ” has the meaning given in
the Uniform Network Code (as defined in section 36C(7) of the Gas Act 1986) .

#### The Boiler Upgrade Scheme

3

A scheme to be known as the Boiler Upgrade Scheme, which is a scheme to
facilitate and encourage the use of heat pumps and biomass boilers in the
space and water heating of certain properties (“ the Scheme ”), is established
by these Regulations.

#### Approval of standards or schemes by the Secretary of State

4

4.1

The Secretary of State must approve—

4.1.a

a standard for the purposes of—

4.1.a.i

the definition of “installer” in regulation 2(1), and

4.1.a.ii

paragraph 1(b)(i) of Schedule 4,

4.1.b

one or more standards for heat pumps for the purposes of regulation 9(1)(c),

4.1.c

a standard for the purposes of regulation 9(1)(d),

4.1.d

one or more standards for biomass boilers for the purposes of regulation
10(1)(c),

4.1.e

a standard for the purposes of paragraph 1 of Schedule 1,

4.1.f

a standard for the purposes of paragraph 2 of Schedule 1,

4.1.g

a standard in relation to NOx emissions and a standard in relation to PM
emissions for the purposes of paragraph 3(a) of Schedule 1,

4.1.h

one or more installation standards for—

4.1.h.i

biomass boilers, and

4.1.h.ii

heat pumps,

for the purposes of paragraph 2(a) of Schedule 4,  ...

4.1.i

a scheme deemed to be equivalent to the Microgeneration Certification Scheme
by the Secretary of State  , and

4.1.j

one or more codes of practice for consumer protection for the purpose of the
definition of “consumer code” in regulation 2(1) .

4.2

The Secretary of State may withdraw the approval of any standard or scheme
under paragraph (1).

4.3

The Secretary of State must—

4.3.a

publish the details of the standards or schemes first approved under paragraph
(1) before the end of the commencement date to have effect from that date,

4.3.b

publish the details of any subsequent standard or scheme which is approved
under paragraph (1), and the date from which it is approved, and

4.3.c

where the approval of a standard or scheme is withdrawn under paragraph (2),
publish that fact together with the date on which it ceased to be approved.

### Eligible properties

#### Eligible properties

5

5.1

For the purposes of these Regulations, a property is an eligible property
where—

5.1.a

it is a building,

5.1.b

it is not social housing,

5.1.c

if it   has had any heating system installed, and was, or will be, first
occupied or used   before the date on which the relevant eligible plant is
commissioned—

5.1.c.i

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

5.1.c.ii

the system providing space heating or water heating, or both, of the property
prior to the installation and commissioning of the eligible plant (the
“original heating system”) is—

5.1.c.ii.aa

fuelled by fossil fuel , or

5.1.c.ii.bb

an electric heating system, and

5.1.c.iii

there has not been a previous grant from public funds for a heat pump or
biomass boiler at the same address, and

5.1.c.iv

there has not been a previous installation of a heat pump, or biomass boiler
at the property as a measure promoted by an electricity or gas supplier for
the purpose of achieving their home-heating cost reduction obligation under
section 41B of the Electricity Act 1989 or section 33BD of the Gas Act 1986,
and

5.1.c.v

there is a valid energy performance certificate for the property ,

5.1.d

if it has not had any heating system installed before the date on which the
relevant eligible plant is commissioned, and it will be first occupied or used
on or after the date on which the relevant eligible plant is commissioned, it
meets the requirements in regulation 7 (requirements for new-build
properties).

5.2

For the purposes of this regulation—

5.2.a

“ electric heating system ” means a heating system which provides heat
generated wholly or mainly from electricity, but does not include a heat pump,

5.2.aa

“ grant from public funds ” has the meaning given in regulation 2(1),

5.2.b

“ relevant eligible plant ”, in relation to a property, means the eligible
plant which is installed in relation to that property,

5.2.c

“ social housing ” has the meaning given in section 68 of the Housing and
Regeneration Act 2008 .

#### Insulation requirements

6

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

#### Requirements for new-build properties

7

7.1

A property meets the requirements in this regulation where the building—

7.1.a

was built principally with the use of the labour or resources of the first
owner (including where the resource was a loan which the first owner was
liable to repay),  ...

7.1.b

has not, while it was built or at any subsequent time been owned wholly or
partly by a person who is not an individual  , and

7.1.c

is not part of an excluded property development.

7.2

In this regulation—

“ excluded property development ” means a development of multiple buildings
constructed on a plot acquired from a person who decided or offered the plans
or specifications to which the buildings were wholly or mainly built.

### Eligible plant

#### Eligible plant

8

8.1

For the purposes of these Regulations, a heat pump is an eligible plant where—

8.1.a

it meets the requirements for heat pumps set out in regulation 9(1), and

8.1.b

once installed—

8.1.b.i

it meets the suitability criteria in relation to the eligible property  ...
for which it is installed, determined in accordance with regulation 9(2), and

8.1.b.ii

it is first commissioned   no more than 120 days before the date on which the
grant application is properly made, unless the Authority has made a decision
to extend this period under paragraph (3) .

8.2

For the purposes of these Regulations, subject to regulation 11, a biomass
boiler is an eligible plant where—

8.2.a

it meets the requirements for biomass boilers set out in regulation 10(1), and

8.2.b

once installed—

8.2.b.i

it meets the suitability criteria in relation to the eligible property,  ...
for which it is installed, determined in accordance with regulation 10(2), and

8.2.b.ii

it is first commissioned   no more than 120 days before the date on which the
grant application is properly made, unless the Authority has made a decision
to extend this period under paragraph (3) .

8.3

The Authority may by notice extend the period specified in paragraph
(1)(b)(ii) or (2)(b)(ii) where—

8.3.a

that period has been exceeded, or is likely to be exceeded, following a
decision by the Authority under regulation 15(7), 15(8), 16(8), 21(1), 23 or
25(5), and

8.3.b

it is satisfied that it is reasonable to do so.

#### Requirements for heat pumps

9

9.1

A heat pump meets the requirements in this paragraph where—

9.1.a

no part of the heat pump which generates heat, other than the ground loop in
the case of a subsequent heat pump installation in relation to a shared ground
loop system, was used before the plant was first commissioned,

9.1.b

it has a capacity of no more than 45 kilowatt thermal, or, in the case of a
shared ground loop system,   the system has a capacity of no more than 300
kilowatt thermal,

9.1.c

it meets the requirements set out in the standards for heat pumps approved by
the Secretary of State under regulation 4(1)(b) which are applicable when the
plant is first commissioned,

9.1.d

it has a seasonal coefficient of performance of at least 2.8, determined in
accordance with the standard approved by the Secretary of State under
regulation 4(1)(c) which is applicable when the plant is first commissioned,

9.1.e

it uses a compressor which is driven by electricity, and

9.1.f

if it is an air source heat pump, it is not designed to use heat in air which
has been expelled from an appliance or building.

9.2

A heat pump meets the suitability criteria in relation to the eligible
property  ... for which it is installed where—

9.2.a

it provides heating—

9.2.a.i

solely to that property, or to both that property and any related property,
and

9.2.a.ii

for the purpose of both space heating and hot water heating, using liquid as a
medium for delivering that heat,

9.2.b

it is capable of meeting the full space heating and hot water heating demands
of that property, and

9.2.c

it replaces the heat generating components of the original heating system
installed in that property (where applicable), other than any—

9.2.c.i

supplementary electric heater, including any immersion heater,

9.2.c.ii

circulation pump, or

9.2.c.iii

solar thermal collector.

9.3

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

9.3.a

“ ground loop ”, in relation to a shared ground loop system, means the
equipment which absorbs energy stored in the form of heat in the ground,
including heat in water in the ground, or in surface water,

9.3.b

“ shared ground loop system ” means a system in which a ground loop provides
heat energy through a hydraulic connection to two or more ground source heat
pumps,

9.3.c

“ subsequent heat pump installation ”, in relation to a shared ground loop
system, means the installation of a second or subsequent ground source heat
pump as part of an existing shared ground loop system.

9.4

For the purposes of paragraph (2) and regulation 10(2), “ hot water ” means
hot water which is intended for the personal use of the individuals who use or
occupy the eligible property  ... and does not include hot water used for the
purposes of—

9.4.a

space heating,

9.4.b

heating a swimming pool, or

9.4.c

carrying out a process.

#### Requirements for biomass boilers

10

10.1

A biomass boiler meets the requirements in this paragraph where—

10.1.a

no part of the biomass boiler which generates heat was used before the plant
is first commissioned,

10.1.b

it has a capacity of no more than 45 kilowatt thermal,

10.1.c

it meets the requirements set out in the standards for biomass boilers
approved by the Secretary of State under regulation 4(1)(d) which are
applicable when the plant was first commissioned,

10.1.d

an emissions certificate that meets the requirements set out in Schedule 1
(requirements for emissions certificates)—

10.1.d.i

has been issued for the plant,

10.1.d.ii

has been issued for a plant of the same make, model and installation capacity
as the plant, or

10.1.d.iii

specifies the plant as being in the same type-testing range as a plant for
which an emissions certificate has been issued (see paragraph 1(m) of Schedule
1),

10.1.e

if the biomass boiler has a cooking function that is not able to be controlled
independently of the heating or hot water function.

10.2

A biomass boiler meets the suitability criteria in relation to the eligible
property  ... in which it is installed where—

10.2.a

it provides heating—

10.2.a.i

solely to that property, or to both that property and any related property,
and

10.2.a.ii

for the purpose of space heating and hot water heating, using liquid as a
medium for delivering that heat,

10.2.b

it is capable of meeting the full space heating and hot water heating demands
of that property, and

10.2.c

it replaces the heat generating components of the original heating system
installed in the eligible property (where applicable), other than any—

10.2.c.i

supplementary electric heater, including any immersion heater,

10.2.c.ii

circulation pump, or

10.2.c.iii

solar thermal collector.

#### Properties in relation to which biomass boilers are not eligible plant

11

A biomass boiler is not an eligible plant in relation to a property, where the
property—

11.a

is in an urban area,

11.b

is fuelled by mains gas, or

11.c

falls within regulation 5(1)(d) and meets the requirements in regulation 7
(new-build properties).

### Boiler upgrade grants

#### Determination and publication of budget allocation

12

12.1

The Secretary of State—

12.1.a

must publish the total budget allocation for boiler upgrade vouchers before
the end of the period of 14 days beginning with the commencement date,

12.1.b

must determine and publish the budget allocation for boiler upgrade vouchers
for a relevant financial year before—

12.1.b.i

in the case of the relevant financial year beginning with the commencement
date, the end of the period of 14 days beginning with that date;

12.1.b.ii

in the case of any other relevant financial year, the beginning of that
financial year, and

12.1.c

may determine and publish a budget allocation for boiler upgrade vouchers for
a quarter of a relevant financial year before the beginning of that quarter.

12.2

The Authority must publish the total value of boiler upgrade vouchers issued,
at least once in every quarter of each relevant financial year.

12.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2), “ boiler upgrade vouchers issued ” means
boiler upgrade vouchers which have been issued and have not—

12.3.a

expired in accordance with regulation 15(2), or

12.3.b

been revoked in accordance with regulation 16(8) or 21.

#### Determination and publication of boiler upgrade grant values

13

13.1

The Secretary of State must determine and publish the values of the boiler
upgrade grants, for one set of grant categories contained in Schedule 1A
within 14 days of the day on which the Boiler Upgrade Scheme (England and
Wales) (Amendment) Regulations 2024 come into force.

13.2

The Secretary of State may review the value of a boiler upgrade grant, having
regard to such matters as the Secretary of State considers relevant, and may
as a result of such a review—

13.2.a

increase or decrease the value of the boiler upgrade grant, or

13.2.b

determine that the value of the boiler upgrade grant remains unchanged.

13.2A

The Secretary of State may review the categories of boiler upgrade grant,
having regard to such matters as the Secretary of State considers relevant,
and as a result of such a review, may—

13.2A.a

determine that the published grant categories are to be replaced by an
alternative set of grant categories and publish the values of the boiler
upgrade grant for the alternative set of grant categories contained in
Schedule 1A, or

13.2A.b

determine that the same set of grant categories available should remain
unchanged,

13.2B

The Secretary of State may only determine and publish the values of one set of
grant categories contained in Schedule 1A at any one time.

13.3

For the purposes of paragraph (2)  and (2A),  the matters to which the
Secretary of State may have regard include—

13.3.a

the number of boiler upgrade vouchers issued in relation to the installation
of eligible plant,

13.3.b

a change in the market price of eligible plant or in the cost of installation
of eligible plant,

13.3.c

any other factor which is likely, in the opinion of the Secretary of State, to
affect—

13.3.c.i

the number of grant applications, or

13.3.c.ii

the cost of installing or running eligible plant.

13.4

Where the value of a boiler upgrade grant is increased or decreased as a
result of a review described in paragraph (2), the Secretary of State must
publish a notice (a “grant change notice”) specifying—

13.4.a

the new value of the boiler upgrade grant, and

13.4.b

the date on which that new value will take effect, which must be a date at
least 28 days after the date on which the grant change notice is published.

13.5

Where the set of grant categories is replaced as a result of a review
described in paragraph (2A), the Secretary of State must publish a notice (a
“grant category change notice”) specifying—

13.5.a

the new set of grant categories that will be available,

13.5.b

the values of the boiler upgrade grants for those grant categories, and

13.5.c

the date on which the new set of grant categories will take effect, which must
be a date at least 28 days after the date on which the grant change notice is
published.

#### Grant applications

14

14.1

An installer may make an application to the Authority for a boiler upgrade
grant (a “grant application”) in relation to the installation of an eligible
plant—

14.1.a

for an eligible property, or

14.1.b

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

provided that the conditions in paragraph (2) are met.

14.2

The conditions in this paragraph are that—

14.2.a

the owner of the property—

14.2.a.i

consents to the installer making the grant application,

14.2.a.ii

will become the owner of the eligible plant on completion of the installation,

14.2.a.iii

has not received a grant from public funds in respect of any of the costs of
the purchase or installation of the eligible plant,  ...

14.2.a.iv

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

14.2.a.v

has not received a previous grant from public funds for a heat pump or a
biomass boiler installed at the same address,

14.2.a.vi

has read and understood the recommendations on their energy performance
certificate, and

14.2.a.vii

if the property owner does not occupy the property, has informed the tenant
(if any) of the impact of the installation of the eligible plant,

14.2.b

the installation of the eligible plant is not a measure promoted by an
electricity or gas supplier for the purpose of achieving their home-heating
cost reduction obligation under section 41B of the Electricity Act 1989  or
section 33BD of the Gas Act 1986 ,

14.2.ba

there has been no previous installation of a heat pump, or biomass boiler at
the property as a measure promoted by an electricity or gas supplier for the
purpose of achieving their home-heating cost reduction obligation under
section 41B of the Electricity Act 1989 or section 33BD of the Gas Act 1986,

14.2.c

a boiler upgrade grant has not previously been paid to an installer in
accordance with regulation 16(6)(b) in relation to the installation of any
eligible plant in the property, and

14.2.d

if the installer is paid the boiler upgrade grant in accordance with
regulation 16(6)(b), it will be used by the installer solely to fund the
installation of the eligible plant.

14.3

A grant application must be in writing, in such form as the Authority may
require, and include—

14.3.a

the information specified in Schedule 2 (information required for grant
application), and

14.3.b

confirmation, given by the installer, that the condition in paragraph (2)(c)
is met, and the information provided under sub-paragraph (a) is accurate to
the best of their knowledge and belief.

14.4

The Authority must give the owner of the property a notice which—

14.4.a

specifies, for the purposes of determining the grant application, the
information required from the owner of the property, which may include
confirming that owner is aware of, and consents to the grant application,

14.4.b

specifies the period within which the information required in sub-paragraph
(a) must be provided, and

14.4.c

informs the owner that failure to provide the requested information within
that period may result in the grant application being rejected.

14.5

Where the Authority considers that further information from the installer is
necessary for the purpose of determining a grant application, it may by
notice—

14.5.a

specify further information which the installer is required to provide within
14 days beginning with the date the notice is issued, and

14.5.b

inform the installer that failure to provide the requested information within
that period may result in the grant application being rejected.

14.6

The Authority may by notice extend the period specified in a notice under
paragraph (4)(b) or (5)(b) where it is satisfied that it is reasonable to do
so.

14.7

For the purposes of paragraph (4), where there is more than one owner of the
eligible property  ...—

14.7.a

the Authority may request information, and confirmation of the matters
referred to in paragraph (2)(a), from any person who is an owner of the
eligible property,

14.7.b

any information or confirmation so requested may be provided by one of the
owners of the eligible property on behalf of one or more of the other owners,
provided that any confirmation requested is provided by or on behalf of every
owner, and

14.7.c

where one owner provides confirmation on behalf of another owner, the
confirmation must state that they have authority to provide that confirmation
on behalf of that other owner.

14.8

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

14.9

An installer may withdraw a grant application made under paragraph (1) at any
time before the Authority determines the application and issues a boiler
upgrade voucher under regulation 15.

#### Determination of grant applications

15

15.1

Subject to paragraphs (4) to (7), regulation 20(5) (refusal of subsequent
grant applications), and regulation 21 (revocation of vouchers), where a grant
application is properly made, the Authority must issue a notice (a “boiler
upgrade voucher”) to the installer which specifies—

15.1.a

the date on which the boiler upgrade voucher is issued,

15.1.b

the date on which the boiler upgrade voucher expires if it has not already
been—

15.1.b.i

redeemed in accordance with regulation 16(6), or

15.1.b.ii

revoked in accordance with regulation 16(8) or 21,

15.1.c

the unique identifier of the boiler upgrade voucher,

15.1.d

which category of boiler upgrade grant contained in Schedule 1A the boiler
upgrade voucher relates to,

15.1.e

the address of the property, and the installer to which the boiler upgrade
voucher relates,

15.1.f

the name, address, email address, and telephone number of the owner of the
property to which the boiler upgrade voucher relates, and

15.1.g

the value of the boiler upgrade grant which will be paid to the installer if
they make a valid application to redeem the boiler upgrade voucher on or
before the date on which it expires.

15.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)—

15.2.a

a boiler upgrade voucher relating to the installation of an air source heat
pump or a biomass boiler expires at the end of the day which falls at the end
of the period of three months which begins with the date on which it is
issued, and

15.2.b

a boiler upgrade voucher relating to the installation of a ground source heat
pump expires at the end of—

15.2.b.i

the day which falls at the end of the period of six months which begins with
the date on which it is issued, or

15.2.b.ii

31st March   2028 ,

whichever is the earlier.

15.3

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(g), the value of a boiler upgrade grant is
the current value of the boiler upgrade grant, for the eligible plant that is
specified in the boiler upgrade voucher in accordance with paragraph (1)(d),
which is published under regulation 13(1)   , (4) or (5)   (as the case may
be)—

15.3.a

in a case where the grant application is considered as an outstanding
application in accordance with paragraph (6), on the date on which the boiler
upgrade voucher is issued,

15.3.b

in any other case, on the date on which the grant application is properly
made.

15.4

The Authority must consider properly made grant applications in the order in
which they are received by it, and must not issue a boiler upgrade voucher
without the written consent of the Secretary of State—

15.4.a

in a relevant financial year, where—

15.4.a.i

the total value of boiler upgrade vouchers already issued in that financial
year is equal to, or exceeds, the budget allocation for that financial year,
or

15.4.a.ii

the total value of boiler upgrade vouchers issued in that financial year would
exceed the budget allocation for that financial year if that boiler upgrade
voucher was issued, or

15.4.b

in a quarter in respect of which the Secretary of State has published a budget
allocation in accordance with regulation 12(1)(c), where the total value of
boiler upgrade vouchers already issued in that quarter is equal to, or
exceeds, the budget allocation for that quarter.

15.5

For the purposes of paragraph (4)—

15.5.a

the budget allocation for a relevant financial year means the budget
allocation published in accordance with regulation 12(1)(b) in respect of that
year,

15.5.b

the total value of boiler upgrade vouchers issued does not include the value
of any boiler upgrade voucher which has—

15.5.b.i

expired in accordance with paragraph (2), or

15.5.b.ii

been revoked in accordance with regulation 16(8) or 21.

15.6

Following any decrease in the total value of boiler upgrade vouchers issued in
a relevant financial year or a quarter (as the case may be), as a result of
the expiry or revocation of a boiler upgrade voucher within the relevant
financial year or the quarter in which it was issued, the Authority must
proceed to consider outstanding grant applications in the order in which they
were received.

15.7

The Authority must refuse to issue a boiler upgrade voucher—

15.7.a

where it considers that the grant application does not comply with regulation
14(1),

15.7.b

where it is not satisfied that the conditions in regulation 14(2) are met in
relation to the grant application, or

15.7.c

after 31st December   2027 .

15.8

The Authority may refuse to issue a boiler upgrade voucher where—

15.8.a

it considers that the installer will not comply with one or more of the
installer obligations,

15.8.b

it refused a previous grant application made by the installer or a connected
person, or withheld payment of a boiler upgrade grant from the installer or a
connected person in accordance with regulation 20, on the ground that
information contained in a previous grant application was incorrect or
misleading in a material particular,

15.8.c

the owner of the property has failed to provide the information specified in a
notice given under regulation 14(4) within the period specified under
regulation 14(4)(b) or (6), as applicable,

15.8.d

the installer has failed to provide the information specified in a notice
given under regulation 14(5) within the period specified in regulation
14(5)(b) or (6), as applicable,

15.8.e

a voucher previously issued to the installer or a connected person was
revoked, other than at the request of the installer or the connected person
(as the case may be), or

15.8.f

the Authority is satisfied, having received notification from a relevant body,
that the installation or operation of the eligible plant is or will be in
breach of any provision of legislation or of a consumer code, of which the
installer is a member.

15.9

For the purposes of paragraph (8)(f), “ relevant body ” means a court,
tribunal, or public authority responsible for enforcing the legislative
provision, the Microgeneration Certification Scheme or an equivalent scheme,
or a consumer code, of which the installer is a member.

15.10

Where the Authority refuses to issue a boiler upgrade voucher, it must send a
notice to the installer specifying—

15.10.a

the reason for the refusal, and

15.10.b

details of the installer’s right of review under regulation 25.

#### Redemption applications

16

16.1

An installer who—

16.1.a

has been issued a boiler upgrade voucher, and

16.1.b

has installed the eligible plant for the eligible property  ... as specified
in that voucher, and commissioned the eligible plant,

may make an application to the Authority to redeem the boiler upgrade voucher
(a “redemption application”) after the plant is first commissioned and before
the boiler upgrade voucher expires.

16.2

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

16.3

A redemption application must be in writing, in such form as the Authority may
require, and include—

16.3.a

the information specified in Schedule 3 (information required for redemption
application),

16.3.b

evidence that the eligible plant meets the certification requirements in
Schedule 4 (certification requirements), and

16.3.c

confirmation, given by the installer, that the information provided under sub-
paragraph (a) and (b) is accurate to the best of their knowledge and belief.

16.4

Where the Authority considers that further information from the installer is
necessary for the purpose of determining a redemption application, it may by
notice—

16.4.a

specify further information which the installer is required to provide within
14 days beginning with the date the notice is issued, and

16.4.b

inform the installer that failure to provide the requested information within
that period may result in the redemption application being rejected.

16.4A

The Authority may, as soon as reasonably practicable, undertake an audit of
the information provided in order to determine a redemption application.

16.5

The Authority may by notice extend the period specified in a notice under
paragraph (4)(a) where it is satisfied that it is reasonable to do so.

16.6

Subject to paragraph (7), regulation 20 (power to withhold grant payment in
the case of non-compliance), and regulation 21 (revocation of vouchers), where
the Authority is satisfied that a redemption application has been properly
made, it must—

16.6.a

notify the installer that their redemption application has been approved, and

16.6.b

make a payment to the installer of the amount of boiler upgrade grant which
was notified to them under regulation 15(1)(g) (“the grant amount”).

16.7

The Authority must refuse a redemption application where approval of the
redemption application would result in more than one boiler upgrade grant
being paid in accordance with paragraph (6) in relation to the same eligible
property.

16.8

Where the Authority is not satisfied that the redemption application has been
properly made, it may refuse that application and revoke the boiler upgrade
voucher.

16.9

Where the Authority refuses a redemption application it must, within 14 days
of making that decision, send a notice to the installer—

16.9.a

notifying them of that decision;

16.9.b

specifying the reason for the refusal;

16.9.c

notifying them of their right of review under regulation 25.

### Compliance and enforcement

#### Obligations on installers

17

17.1

An installer who has   made a grant application that has not been refused by
the Authority, or been issued a boiler upgrade voucher   must —

17.1.a

retain a copy of any information relied on when making the grant application
and any redemption application for six years from the date on which the grant
application or the redemption application (as the case may be) was made,

17.1.b

if they become aware that any of the information provided in support of the
grant application or any redemption application—

17.1.b.i

was incorrect at the time it was relied on, or

17.1.b.ii

has materially changed since it was relied on such that, had the application
been made after the change, it would not comply with the requirements in these
Regulations,

notify the Authority of that fact no more than 14 days after becoming so
aware,

17.1.c

provide to the Authority, within 14 days of a request by the Authority, any
information which the installer holds in relation to the installation to which
the boiler upgrade voucher relates and which the Authority requires in order
to discharge its functions under these Regulations.

17.2

Paragraph (1) applies regardless of whether the boiler upgrade voucher has—

17.2.a

expired in accordance with regulation 15(2),

17.2.b

been redeemed in accordance with regulation 16(6), or

17.2.c

been revoked in accordance with regulation 16(8) or 21.

#### Inspection of property

18

18.1

The Authority or its authorised agent may request access at any reasonable
hour to inspect a property to which a boiler upgrade voucher relates to do any
one or more of the following—

18.1.a

verify an eligible plant,

18.1.b

verify that a property is an eligible property  ...,

18.1.c

take photographs, measurements, or video or audio recordings in relation to
that verification,

18.1.d

ensure that there is no contravention of these Regulations.

18.2

The request referred to in paragraph (1) must be made by a notice to the owner
of the property which—

18.2.a

specifies the reason for the proposed inspection,

18.2.b

is given to the owner no less than two days before the proposed inspection is
to take place, and

18.2.c

informs the owner of their right to refuse the request.

18.3

Paragraph (1) applies regardless of whether the boiler upgrade voucher has—

18.3.a

expired in accordance with regulation 15(2),

18.3.b

been redeemed in accordance with regulation 16(6), or

18.3.c

been revoked in accordance with regulation 16(8) or 21.

#### Power to temporarily withhold grant payment during investigation

19

19.1

Where the Authority has reasonable grounds to suspect that—

19.1.a

an installer—

19.1.a.i

has failed or is failing to comply with an installer obligation, or

19.1.a.ii

has been issued a voucher, or has been paid a boiler upgrade grant, as a
result of the provision of information which was incorrect in a material
particular,

19.1.b

the person who is specified in a boiler upgrade voucher as an installer is not
an installer,

19.1.c

the property specified in a boiler upgrade voucher is not an eligible property
...  , or

19.1.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

19.1.e

the plant specified in a boiler upgrade voucher is not eligible, or not
eligible in relation to the property specified in the voucher,

and it requires time to investigate, it may decide to withhold one or more
payments of a boiler upgrade grant which would otherwise be payable to the
installer, pending the outcome of that investigation.

19.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), the Authority is deemed to have reasonable
grounds to suspect the matters mentioned in paragraph (1)(a) or (b) if it
receives notification from the Microgeneration Certification Scheme or an
equivalent scheme or a consumer code that the installer is under investigation
by them for breach of a requirement of the Microgeneration Certification
Scheme, the equivalent scheme or the consumer code.

19.3

Within 14 days of a decision to withhold a payment of a boiler upgrade grant
under paragraph (1), the Authority must send a notice to the installer which
specifies—

19.3.a

which of the grounds in paragraph (1)(a) to (e) apply,

19.3.b

the boiler upgrade grant payment which will be withheld and the next steps in
the investigation,

19.3.c

where applicable, the information the installer must provide to the Authority,

19.3.d

the date by which the information mentioned in sub-paragraph (c) must be
provided, and

19.3.e

the consequences of the installer failing to provide the information mentioned
in sub-paragraph (d) by the date specified.

19.4

The Authority’s investigation must be commenced and completed as soon as is
reasonably practicable, and immediately on conclusion of its investigation the
Authority must inform the installer of—

19.4.a

the outcome of the investigation, and

19.4.b

the action the Authority proposes to take under this Part, if any.

19.5

Where the Authority concludes that none of the grounds in paragraph (1)(a) to
(e) is satisfied, it must make payment of any grant withheld during the course
of its investigation.

19.6

Within three months of sending a notice under paragraph (3), the Authority
must either make payment in accordance with paragraph (5) or must send the
installer a notice under regulation 20, 21, or 22.

#### Power to withhold grant payment in the case of non-compliance

20

20.1

Where the Authority is satisfied that—

20.1.a

an installer—

20.1.a.i

has failed or is failing to comply with an installer obligation, or

20.1.a.ii

has been issued a voucher, or has been paid a boiler upgrade grant, as a
result of the provision of information which was incorrect in a material
particular,

20.1.b

the person who is specified in a boiler upgrade voucher as the installer is
not an installer,

20.1.c

the property specified in a boiler upgrade voucher is not an eligible property
...  , or

20.1.d

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

20.1.e

the plant specified in a boiler upgrade voucher is not eligible, or not
eligible in relation to the property specified in the voucher,

it may decide to withhold one or more boiler upgrade grant payments which
would otherwise be payable to the installer.

20.2

Within 14 days of a decision to withhold a payment of a boiler upgrade grant
under paragraph (1), the Authority must send a notice to the installer
specifying—

20.2.a

which of the grounds in paragraph (1)(a) to (e) apply,

20.2.b

where there has been a failure to comply with an installer obligation, the
respect in which the Authority is satisfied that the installer has failed or
is failing to comply with that obligation,

20.2.c

where the installer has been issued a boiler upgrade voucher as a result of
the provision of information which was incorrect in a material particular,
details of the respect in which the information was incorrect,

20.2.d

the number, and total value, of boiler upgrade grant payments the Authority
intends to withhold,

20.2.e

where applicable, the steps that the installer must take to satisfy the
Authority that it is complying with the installer obligation,

20.2.f

where applicable, the steps that the installer must take to satisfy the
Authority that, notwithstanding the provision of information which was
incorrect in a material particular, the Authority should not withhold the
boiler upgrade grant payments,

20.2.g

where applicable, the information the installer must provide to the Authority,

20.2.h

the date by which the steps referred to in sub-paragraph (e) or (f) must be
completed, or the information mentioned in sub-paragraph (g) must be provided,
which must be within 14 days beginning with the date the notice is issued, and

20.2.i

the consequences of the installer failing to take the steps referred to in
sub-paragraph (e) or (f), or to provide the information mentioned in sub-
paragraph (g), by the date specified.

20.3

The Authority may extend the time specified in the notice in accordance with
paragraph (2)(h) where it is satisfied that it is reasonable to do so.

20.4

Where the Authority is satisfied that the installer has taken the steps
specified in the notice in accordance with paragraph (2)(e) or (f), or
provided the information specified in the notice in accordance with paragraph
(2)(g), as applicable, within the time specified, it must notify that
installer that the boiler upgrade grant payments will not be withheld in
accordance with this regulation.

20.5

Where the Authority is not satisfied as described in paragraph (4), the
Authority—

20.5.a

must notify the installer of that fact,

20.5.b

may revoke a boiler upgrade voucher, and

20.5.c

may refuse any subsequent grant application by that installer or by a
connected person.

#### Revocation of vouchers

21

21.1

The Authority may revoke a boiler upgrade voucher—

21.1.a

where it is no longer satisfied that the conditions in regulation 14(2) are
met in relation to the boiler upgrade voucher,

21.1.b

where it is no longer satisfied that any information required by a notice
given under regulation 14(4) in relation to the boiler upgrade voucher is
accurate,

21.1.c

where it is satisfied that the installer to whom it has issued the boiler
upgrade voucher—

21.1.c.i

has failed or is failing to comply with an installer obligation, or

21.1.c.ii

has been issued the voucher as a result of the provision of information which
was incorrect in a material particular,

21.1.d

where it is satisfied that—

21.1.d.i

the person who is specified in the boiler upgrade voucher as the installer is
not an installer,

21.1.d.ii

the property specified in the boiler upgrade voucher is not an eligible
property  ...  , or

21.1.d.iii

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

21.1.d.iv

the plant specified in the boiler upgrade voucher is not eligible, or not
eligible in relation to the property specified in the voucher, or

21.1.e

at the request of the installer.

21.2

Where the Authority is satisfied as set out in paragraph (1)(c) or (d)(i), it
may also revoke all other boiler upgrade vouchers issued to the installer.

21.3

Within 14 days of a decision to revoke the boiler upgrade voucher under
paragraph (1), the Authority must send a notice to the installer specifying—

21.3.a

where paragraph (1)(a) or (b) applies—

21.3.a.i

the respect in which the Authority is satisfied that the condition is no
longer met, or the information is no longer accurate, and

21.3.a.ii

where applicable, the steps that the installer must take to satisfy the
Authority that the condition is met or the information is accurate,

21.3.b

where paragraph (1)(c)(i) applies—

21.3.b.i

the respect in which the Authority is satisfied that the installer has failed
or is failing to comply with the installer obligation, and

21.3.b.ii

where applicable, the steps that the installer must take to satisfy the
Authority that it is complying with the installer obligation,

21.3.c

where paragraph (1)(c)(ii) applies—

21.3.c.i

details of the respect in which the information was incorrect, and

21.3.c.ii

where applicable, the steps that the installer must take to satisfy the
Authority that, notwithstanding the provision of incorrect information, the
boiler upgrade voucher should not be revoked,

21.3.d

where paragraph (1)(c) or (d)(i) applies, details of any other boiler upgrade
vouchers issued to the installer that the Authority has decided to revoke
under paragraph (2),

21.3.e

where paragraph (1)(d) applies, details of the respect in which the Authority
is satisfied as to the matters described in paragraph (1)(d)(i), (ii), (iii)
or (iv) (as applicable),

21.3.f

where applicable, any further information the installer must provide to the
Authority,

21.3.g

the date by which the steps referred to in sub-paragraph (a)(ii), (b)(ii) or
(c)(ii) must be completed, or the information mentioned in sub-paragraph (f)
must be provided, which must be within 14 days beginning with the date the
notice is issued,

21.3.h

the consequences of the installer failing to take the steps referred to in
sub-paragraph (a)(ii), (b)(ii) or (c)(ii), or to provide the information
mentioned in sub-paragraph (f), by the date specified, and

21.3.i

where paragraph (1)(a), (b), (c) or (d) applies, details of the installer’s
right of review under regulation 25.

21.4

The Authority may extend the time specified in the notice in accordance with
paragraph (3)(g) where it is satisfied that it is reasonable to do so.

21.5

Where the Authority is satisfied that the installer has taken the steps
specified in the notice in accordance with sub-paragraph (a)(ii), (b)(ii) or
(c)(ii) or provided the information specified in the notice in accordance with
sub-paragraph (f), as applicable, within the time specified, it must notify
that installer that the boiler upgrade voucher will not be revoked in
accordance with this regulation.

21.6

Where the Authority revokes a boiler upgrade voucher in accordance with this
regulation, regulation 16(8) or 20(5) it—

21.6.a

must update the register, maintained under regulation 28, accordingly, and

21.6.b

may refuse any subsequent grant application by that installer or by a
connected person, except where paragraph (1)(e) applies (installer request to
revoke).

#### Repayment notices and offsetting

22

22.1

Where the Authority is satisfied that an installer has received payments under
these Regulations which—

22.1.a

exceed the amount to which the installer was entitled under these Regulations,

22.1.b

were paid whilst there was a failure by the installer to comply with an
installer obligation, or following such a failure, or

22.1.c

were paid as a result of the provision of information by the installer which
was incorrect in a material particular,

it may take one of the actions set out in paragraph (2).

22.2

The actions in this paragraph are that the Authority may—

22.2.a

require the installer to repay an amount in relation to some or all of those
payments, or

22.2.b

offset an amount in relation to some or all of those payments against future
payments to the installer under these Regulations.

22.3

Before taking either of the actions set out in paragraph (2), the Authority
must send a notice to the installer specifying—

22.3.a

the amount it is seeking to recover,

22.3.b

the basis on which that amount is calculated,

22.3.c

whether the amount must be repaid or will be offset,

22.3.d

where applicable, the date by which the amount must be repaid, which must be
not less than 28 days after the date on which the notice is sent, and

22.3.e

details of the installer’s right of review under regulation 25.

22.4

Subject to regulation 25(7), where an installer, who is required to repay an
amount under this regulation fails, to make payment in full by the date
specified under paragraph (3)(d), the Authority may recover any outstanding
amount as a civil debt.

#### Revocation of sanctions

23

23.1

The Authority may at any time revoke a sanction imposed in accordance with any
of regulations 16(8) and 20 to 22 if it is satisfied that—

23.1.a

there was an error involved in the original imposition of the sanction, or

23.1.b

it is just and equitable in the particular circumstances of the case to do so.

23.2

Within 14 days of a decision to revoke a sanction, the Authority must send a
notice to the installer specifying—

23.2.a

the sanction which has been revoked, and

23.2.b

the reason for the revocation.

23.3

Where a sanction is revoked, the Authority must, where applicable, update the
register maintained under regulation 28.

#### Application of this Part in relation to persons who are not or cease to be installers

24

24.1

If a person  who has made a grant application that has not been refused by the
Authority, or   to whom a boiler upgrade voucher has been issued ceases to be
an installer, any installer obligations, and the requirement to comply with
those obligations, continue to apply to that person as if they were an
installer.

24.2

If any person who makes an application under regulation 14 or 16 is not, or
ceases to be, an installer, the Authority may commence or continue compliance
or enforcement action under this Part in relation to any breach of these
Regulations by them, and they are an installer for the purposes of any such
action.

### Additional powers and functions of the Authority

#### Right of review

25

25.1

Any installer, or person who has made an application as an installer, affected
by a decision made by the Authority in exercise of its functions under these
Regulations (other than a decision made in accordance with regulation 19,
20(1) or this regulation) may have that decision reviewed by the Authority.

25.2

An application for review must be made by notice in such format as the
Authority may require and must—

25.2.a

be received by the Authority within 28 days of the date of notification of the
decision to be reviewed,

25.2.b

specify the decision which that person wishes to be reviewed,

25.2.c

specify the grounds and evidence upon which the application is made, and

25.2.d

be signed by or on behalf of the person making the application.

25.3

A person who has made an application in accordance with paragraph (2) must
provide the Authority with such information as the Authority may reasonably
request in order to discharge its functions under this regulation, provided
any information requested is in that person’s possession.

25.4

A review under this regulation may not be carried out by any person who was
involved in the decision which is being reviewed.

25.5

On review the Authority may—

25.5.a

revoke or vary its decision,

25.5.b

confirm its decision,

25.5.c

vary any sanction it has imposed (including modifying any date specified for
the purposes of regulation 22(3)(d)), or

25.5.d

replace any sanction it has imposed with one or more alternative sanctions.

25.6

Within 21 days of the Authority’s decision on a review, it must send a notice
to the installer or former installer (as the case may be), and to any other
person who is in the Authority’s opinion affected by its decision, setting out
its decision with reasons.

25.7

Where an application is made under paragraph (1) for a decision to be
reviewed, that decision will be suspended until a decision is made under
paragraph (5).

#### Reliance on information provided to the Authority

26

26.1

When exercising any functions under these Regulations, the Authority may—

26.1.a

treat any information or confirmation provided to it—

26.1.a.i

by an installer in support of a grant application or a redemption application,

26.1.a.ii

by a property owner or any other person in relation to a grant application or
a redemption application,

as conclusive as to the matters to which they relate, unless the Authority has
reason to believe that any such information or confirmation is not accurate,

26.1.b

verify any information provided by an installer against any information on the
register required to be maintained under regulation 27(1) of the EPB
Regulations, the Microgeneration Installation Database or an approved
register, and any other information available to the Authority,

26.1.c

treat inclusion of a plant on the Microgeneration Installation Database or an
approved register as evidence that the plant has been certified on the basis
that the plant is installed in accordance with a relevant installation
standard, and

26.1.d

treat any information about a plant on the Microgeneration Installation
Database or an approved register as conclusive as to the matters to which it
relates.

26.2

For the purposes of this regulation—

26.2.a

“ Microgeneration Installation Database ” means the database of installations
maintained by the Microgeneration Certification Scheme,

26.2.b

the Secretary of State—

26.2.b.i

may approve one or more registers for the purposes of paragraph (1)(b), (c)
and (d),

26.2.b.ii

must publish the details of any register which is approved, and the date from
which it is approved, and

26.2.b.iii

where any register ceases to be approved, must publish that fact together with
the date on which it ceased to be approved,

and “ approved register ” means a register which is approved by the Secretary
of State in accordance with sub-paragraph (b)(i).

#### The Authority’s power to disclose information

27

27.1

The Authority may disclose relevant information to another person for the
purpose of facilitating the exercise by the Authority of any function it has
under or by virtue of these Regulations.

27.2

This regulation does not limit the circumstances in which information may
otherwise lawfully be disclosed by the Authority under any other enactment or
rule of law.

27.3

For the purposes of this regulation, “ relevant information ” means
information provided in accordance with these Regulations by a person who
makes a grant application or a person who owns a property which is the subject
of a grant application.

#### Duty to maintain register

28

The Authority must maintain a register of—

28.a

grant applications,

28.b

redemption applications,

28.c

issued boiler upgrade vouchers,

28.d

redeemed boiler upgrade vouchers.

and must ensure, so far as practicable, that entries in the register are
accurate and up to date.

#### Publication of guidance

29

The Authority must publish procedural guidance to installers in connection
with the administration of the Scheme.

#### Reporting obligations

30

30.1

The Authority must provide monthly reports to the Secretary of State, in such
manner and form as the Secretary of State may request, containing the
following information—

30.1.a

in relation to each boiler upgrade grant which was paid during the period
covered by the report—

30.1.a.i

the information provided to the Authority in support of the related grant
application in accordance with regulation 14(3)(a), and

30.1.a.ii

the information provided to the Authority in support of the related redemption
application in accordance with regulation 16(3)(a), and

30.1.b

such other information as the Authority holds and the Secretary of State may
require in relation to grant applications and issued boiler upgrade vouchers.

30.2

Each monthly report must cover a calendar month, and must be provided to the
Secretary of State within seven working days of the end of that month.

30.3

The Authority must provide the following reports to the Secretary of State, in
such manner and form as the Secretary of State may request, containing the
information specified in paragraph (1)(a) and (b) in aggregate form—

30.3.a

a report, provided by 31st August 2022, for the period beginning with the
commencement date and ending with 31st July 2022,

30.3.b

quarterly reports in accordance with paragraph (4),

30.3.c

annual reports, for each relevant financial year, by 31st July following the
end of each relevant financial year.

30.4

The quarterly reports must cover a three month period beginning with 1st
August, 1st November, 1st February or 1st May, with the first beginning with
1st August 2022 and the last beginning with 1st February   2028 , and be
provided by no later than one month after the end of the relevant three month
period.

30.5

The Authority must publish each quarterly and annual report by no later than
the date on which it is provided to the Secretary of State.

30.6

Any information which includes personal data (within the meaning of section
3(2) of the Data Protection Act 2018 ) relating to the owner of a property,
and which is required to be, reported or published by or under this
regulation, must be reported or published (as the case may be) in anonymised
form.

30.7

For the purposes of paragraph (7), “ anonymised form ” means that the data is
in a form calculated to prevent the data from being identified as relating to
a particular person or property.

#### Additional information to be provided to the Secretary of State

31

31.1

On request by the Secretary of State, the Authority must provide to the
Secretary of State in such manner and form and by such date as the Secretary
of State may request such additional information as the Authority may hold in
relation to the performance of its functions under these Regulations.

31.2

For the avoidance of doubt, the information which the Secretary of State may
request under paragraph (1) includes personal data (within the meaning of
section 3(2) of the Data Protection Act 2018 ), that would otherwise be
anonymised under regulation 30(6).

#### Provision of information to the Authority

32

32.1

This regulation applies where—

32.1.a

the Authority requests information from—

32.1.a.i

an installer,

32.1.a.ii

a person who has made an application as an installer, or

32.1.a.iii

an owner,

32.1.b

an installer, a person who has made an application as an installer, or an
owner is required to provide information or confirmation to the Authority
under these Regulations.

32.2

The information or confirmation must be provided within such time and in such
manner and form as the Authority may reasonably request and must be accurate
to the best knowledge and belief of the person required to provide it.

32.3

The costs of providing the information are to be borne, where applicable, by—

32.3.a

the installer,

32.3.b

the person who has made an application as an installer, or

32.3.c

the owner, where paragraph (1)(a)(iii) applies.

#### Notices

33

33.1

Any notice or notification required to be given or issued under these
Regulations must be in writing and may be sent by electronic means, including
by sending it to an email address provided by the addressee for the purposes
of these Regulations.

33.2

Any such notice or notification required to be given to or issued to or served
on an installer or the owner of a property (“ P ”) may be given by—

33.2.a

delivering or sending it to, or leaving it at—

33.2.a.i

P’s registered office, P’s principal place of activity, or P’s home address
(as applicable), or

33.2.a.ii

another address provided by P for the purposes of these Regulations, or

33.2.b

electronic means, including by sending it to an email address provided by P
for the purposes of these Regulations.

      Callanan   Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for
Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy   22nd May 2022

Requirements for emissions certificates

Regulation 10(1)(d)

1

An emissions certificate meets the requirements in this Schedule where it is
issued by a testing laboratory which is accredited by UKAS to the standard
approved by the Secretary of State under regulation 4(1)(e) (“the laboratory
accreditation standard”) at the time of testing, and contains the following
information—

1.a

the name and address of the testing laboratory by which tests have been
carried out,

1.b

the name and signature of the person authorised by the testing laboratory to
issue the certificate,

1.c

the date of issue of the certificate together with a certificate reference
number,

1.d

the date of the accreditation of the testing laboratory to the laboratory
accreditation standard, and the accreditation number,

1.e

the name, model, manufacturer and installation capacity of the plant tested,

1.f

the date of the testing,

1.g

confirmation that—

1.g.i

emissions of NOx and PM have been tested on the same occasion,

1.g.ii

the testing was in accordance with the requirements set out in paragraph 2 or
3,

1.g.iii

the test was carried out at no less than 85% of the installation capacity of
the plant,

1.h

confirmation that when tested as specified in sub-paragraph (g)—

1.h.i

emissions of PM from the plant did not exceed 30 grams of PM per gigajoule net
heat input, and

1.h.ii

emissions of NOx did not exceed 150 grams of NOx per gigajoule net heat input,

where “ net heat input ” means the rate of heat, expressed as the amount of
heat over time, which is supplied to the plant by the fuel used, based on the
net calorific value of that fuel,

1.i

the actual emissions of PM and NOx measured when the plant was tested as
specified in sub-paragraph (g),

1.j

a list of—

1.j.i

the types of fuel used during the testing, and

1.j.ii

the types of fuel which can be used so as to ensure that the emission limits
referred to in sub-paragraph (h) are not exceeded,

1.k

the moisture content of the fuel used during testing and the maximum moisture
content which can be used so as to ensure that the emission limits referred to
in sub-paragraph (h) are not exceeded,

1.l

a statement indicating whether or not the plant tested was a manually stoked
natural draught plant,

1.m

a list of plants, other than the plant tested, in the type-testing range of
plants for the certificate, if any.

2

For the purposes of paragraph 1(g)(ii) the requirements in this paragraph are
that testing is carried out in accordance with the provisions relevant to
emissions of PM and NOx in the standard approved by the Secretary of State
under regulation 4(1)(f).

3

For the purposes of paragraph 1(g)(ii) the requirements in this paragraph are
that—

3.a

testing is carried out in accordance with the standards approved by the
Secretary of State under regulation 4(1)(g) in relation to—

3.a.i

NOx emissions, and

3.a.ii

PM emissions,

3.b

the emissions of PM represent the average of at least three measurements of
emissions of PM, each of at least 30 minutes duration, and

3.c

the value for NOx emissions is derived from the average of measurements made
throughout the PM emission tests.

Sets of Grant Categories

regulation 2, 13 and 15

1

This Schedule specifies the sets of grant categories that may be published by
the Secretary of State under regulation 13.

Table 1 Set One Column 1 Column 2: A boiler upgrade grant for the installation
of— 1 An air source heat pump 2 A ground source heat pump 3 A biomass boiler

Table 2 Set Two Column 1 Column 2: A boiler upgrade grant for the installation
of— 1 An air source heat pump in a new-build property 2 A ground source heat
pump in a new-build property 3 An air source heat pump in a property that is
not a new-build property 4 A ground source heat pump in a property that is not
a new-build property 5 A biomass boiler in a property that is not a new-build
property

Table 3 Set Three Column 1 Column 2: A boiler upgrade grant for the
installation of— 1 An air source heat pump in a property that is not an off-
gas grid property 2 A ground source heat pump in a property that is not an
off-gas grid property 3 An air source heat pump in an off-gas grid property
that is replacing a coal heating system 4 An air source heat pump in an off-
gas grid property that is replacing a liquefied petroleum gas heating system 5
An air source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is replacing an oil
heating system 6 An air source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is
replacing a fossil fuel hybrid system 7 An air source heat pump in an off-gas
grid property that is replacing an electric heating system that is not a heat
pump 8 An air source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is replacing
any other fossil fuel heating system that is not covered by row 3 to 7 of this
Table 9 A ground source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is
replacing a coal heating system 10 A ground source heat pump in an off-gas
grid property that is replacing a liquefied petroleum gas heating system 11 A
ground source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is replacing an oil
heating system 12 A ground source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that
is replacing a fossil fuel hybrid system 13 A ground source heat pump in an
off-gas grid property that is replacing an electric heating system that is not
a heat pump 14 A ground source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is
replacing any other fossil fuel heating system that is not covered by row 9 to
13 of this Table 15 A biomass boiler in an off-gas grid property replacing a
coal heating system 16 A biomass boiler in an off-gas grid property replacing
a liquefied petroleum gas heating system 17 A biomass boiler in an off-gas
grid property replacing an oil heating system 18 A biomass boiler in an off-
gas grid property replacing a fossil fuel hybrid system 19 A biomass boiler in
an off-gas grid property replacing an electric heating system that is not a
heat pump 20 A biomass boiler in an off-gas grid property replacing any other
fossil fuel heating system that is not covered by row 15 to 19 of this Table

Table 4 Set Four Column 1 Column 2: A boiler upgrade grant for the
installation of— 1 An air source heat pump in a property that is not an off-
gas grid property and not a new-build property 2 A ground source heat pump in
a property that is not an off-gas grid property and not a new-build property 3
An air source heat pump in a new-build property 4 A ground source heat pump in
a new-build property 5 An air source heat pump in an off-gas grid property
that is replacing a coal heating system 6 An air source heat pump in an off-
gas grid property that is replacing a liquefied petroleum gas heating system 7
An air source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is replacing an oil
heating system 8 An air source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is
replacing a fossil fuel hybrid system 9 An air source heat pump in an off-gas
grid property that is replacing an electric heating system that is not a heat
pump 10 An air source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is replacing
any other fossil fuel heating system that is not covered by row 5 to 9 of this
Table 11 A ground source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is
replacing a coal heating system 12 A ground source heat pump in an off-gas
grid property that is replacing a liquefied petroleum gas heating system 13 A
ground source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is replacing an oil
heating system 14 A ground source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that
is replacing a fossil fuel hybrid system 15 A ground source heat pump in an
off-gas grid property that is replacing an electric heating system that is not
a heat pump 16 A ground source heat pump in an off-gas grid property that is
replacing any other fossil fuel heating system that is not covered by row 11
to 15 of this Table 17 A biomass boiler in an off-gas grid property replacing
a coal heating system 18 A biomass boiler in an off-gas grid property
replacing a liquefied petroleum gas heating system 19 A biomass boiler in an
off-gas grid property replacing an oil heating system 20 A biomass boiler in
an off-gas grid property replacing a fossil fuel hybrid system 21 A biomass
boiler in an off-gas grid property replacing an electric heating system that
is not a heat pump 22 A biomass boiler in an off-gas grid property replacing
any other fossil fuel heating system that is not covered by row 17 to 21 of
this Table

2

For the purposes of this Schedule, a “ fossil fuel hybrid system ” means a
heating system that comprises of two or more plants that are all powered by
fossil fuel.

Information required for grant application

Regulation 14(3)(a)

1

This Schedule specifies the information that must be provided in support of a
grant application.

2

The information is—

2.a

the installer’s name, any trading or other name by which the installer is
commonly known, and registered office (where applicable) or principal place of
activity, and company registration number (where applicable),

2.b

the installer’s certification number in relation to the Microgeneration
Certification Scheme, or an equivalent scheme, under which they are certified,

2.c

the name of the consumer code of which the installer is a member,   and the
membership or certification number of the consumer code of which the installer
is a member ,

2.d

where the grant application is made on behalf of the installer by an
individual, information to enable the Authority to satisfy itself—

2.d.i

as to the identity of that individual, and

2.d.ii

that the individual has authority from the installer to make the grant
application,

2.e

details of a bank account in the installer’s name which accepts pound sterling
deposits in the United Kingdom,

2.f

details of the property, including—

2.f.i

the address,

2.f.ii

whether it   has had any heating system installed and was, or will be first
occupied or used   before the date on which the eligible plant was, or is to
be, commissioned,

2.f.iii

in the case of a grant application relating to the installation of a biomass
boiler, whether it is—

2.f.iii.aa

in an urban area

2.f.iii.bb

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.f.iii.cc

falls within regulation 5(1)(d) and meets the requirements in regulation 7
(new-build properties),

2.f.iv

whether—

2.f.iv.aa

it is an eligible property  ...

2.f.iv.bb

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.g

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .

2.h

details of the original heating system in relation to the property (where
applicable),

2.ha

whether the property is fuelled by mains gas,

2.i

details of the eligible plant to be installed in the property, including
whether it is an air source heat pump, a ground source heat pump, or a biomass
boiler,

2.j

where the property falls within regulation 5(1)(c) (property first occupied or
used  or has had any heating system installed   before the date on which the
plant is commissioned), the unique reference number for the valid energy
performance certificate for the property,

2.k

details of the quote provided by the installer to the owner of the property
for the installation of the eligible plant,

2.l

the name, address, email address (if available), and telephone number of the
owner of the property, and

2.m

such other information, or declarations from the installer, as the Authority
may require to enable it to determine the grant application.

Information required for redemption application

Regulation 16(3)(a)

1

This Schedule specifies the information that must be provided in support of a
redemption application.

2

The information is—

2.a

the unique reference number under which the eligible plant is certified under
the Microgeneration Certification Scheme or an equivalent scheme (see
paragraph 1(a) and (b) of Schedule 4),

2.b

the unique identifier of the boiler upgrade voucher,

2.c

the name of the manufacturer, the model, and the serial number of the eligible
plant installed for the eligible property  ...,

2.d

where the eligible plant installed was a biomass boiler, the biomass emissions
certificate,

2.da

the date that the eligible plant was commissioned,

2.e

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . and

2.f

such other information as the Authority may require to enable it to determine
the redemption application.

Certification requirements

Regulation 16(3)(b)

1

A plant meets the requirements in this Schedule where it is certified under—

1.a

the Microgeneration Certification Scheme as installed in accordance with a
relevant installation standard in that scheme, or

1.b

a scheme where—

1.b.i

installers are certified to that scheme’s standards by a certification body or
organisation accredited by UKAS to the standard approved by the Secretary of
State under regulation 4(1)(a),

1.b.ii

the plant is installed in accordance with the installation requirements
applicable to the plant under that scheme when the plant is first commissioned
and which are equivalent to a relevant installation standard, and

1.b.iii

that scheme is equivalent to the Microgeneration Certification Scheme.

2

For the purposes of paragraph 1(a), “ relevant installation standard ” in
relation to a plant means an installation standard which—

2.a

is approved by the Secretary of State under regulation 4(1)(h), and

2.b

is in force when the plant is first commissioned.

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

  (This note is not part of the Regulations)

These Regulations, which apply in England and Wales, establish the Boiler
Upgrade Scheme (“ the Scheme ”).

The Scheme is a renewable heat incentive scheme to facilitate and encourage
the use of heat pumps and biomass boilers to provide space and water heating
in domestic properties and small non-domestic properties. To that extent the
Scheme replaces the Domestic Renewable Heat Incentive Scheme, set out in the
Domestic Renewable Heat Incentive Scheme Regulations 2014 ( S.I. 2014/928 )
which closes to new applicants, with some exceptions, on 31st March 2022.

The Scheme supports the installation of heat pumps and biomass boilers through
a grant mechanism provided that they do not replace an existing renewable
heating system.

These Regulations confer functions on the Gas and Electricity Markets
Authority (“ the Authority ”) in relation to the administration of the Scheme.

Part 2 prescribes eligible properties for the purposes of the Scheme. In
brief, these are buildings including building units (other than social
housing):   a     which either meet certain insulation requirements or are new
build properties, and       b     where the existing heating system in the
property is fuelled by fossil fuel or is a heating system which provides heat
generated wholly or mainly from electricity (other than a heat pump).

Part 3 prescribes the eligible plant which may be installed for eligible
properties under the Scheme, namely air source heat pumps, ground source heat
pumps, and biomass boilers, where the plant is first commissioned on or after
1st April 2022. However, a biomass boiler may not be installed under the
Scheme for an eligible property which is in an urban area and fuelled by mains
gas, or which is a new-build property.

Part 4 sets out the budget control mechanism for the Scheme, and provides for
the Secretary of State to determine and publish: the total budget for the
Scheme, the budget allocation for boiler upgrade vouchers for each of the
financial years 2022/23, 2023/24 and 2024/25, and the value of boiler upgrade
vouchers for each of the types of eligible plant. The value of the boiler
upgrade grants may be reviewed by the Secretary of State during the lifetime
of the Scheme. Part 4 provides for a certified installer who installs an
eligible plant for an eligible property, or a property to which regulation
14(1)(b) applies, to apply to the Authority for a boiler upgrade voucher. The
voucher is time-limited, and entitles the installer to be paid the relevant
boiler upgrade grant on completion of the installation, provided that a valid
application to redeem the voucher is made before the voucher expires. However,
the Authority may not issue a boiler upgrade voucher after 31st December 2024.

Part 5 deals with compliance and enforcement. It places obligations on
installers in relation to the provision of information to the Authority, and
enables the Authority to take action in the event that an installer fails to
comply with such an obligation or has been issued a boiler upgrade voucher on
the basis of information which was incorrect in a material particular. Part 5
enables the Authority to withhold boiler upgrade grant payments, to revoke
vouchers and to require repayment of a grant in certain circumstances.

Part 6 sets out the additional powers and functions of the Authority under the
Scheme. It enables any installer or former installer to apply to the Authority
for a review of any decision affecting them. It requires the Authority to
publish guidance to installers, and requires the Authority to maintain a
register of grant applications and grants paid, and to make monthly reports to
the Secretary of State on the operation of the Scheme.

A full impact assessment of the effect that this instrument will have on the
costs of business and the voluntary sector is available from the Department
for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy at 1 Victoria Street, London,
SW1H 0ET and is published with the Explanatory Memorandum alongside the
instrument on  www.legislation.gov.uk .

