Title: The Merchant Shipping (Nuclear Ships) Regulations 2022
Date: 2024-05-20
Description: These Regulations implement the requirements of Chapter VIII in the Annex to the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 (“the Convention”), which contains the safety requirements for merchant nuclear powered ships (“nuclear ships”). Chapter VIII is supplemented by the Code of Safety for Nuclear Merchant Ships (“the Nuclear Code”), which was adopted by the International Maritime Organization (IMO) in Resolution A.491(XII) on 19th November 1981. Although the Nuclear Code is not part of the Convention, or made mandatory by it, Member States were invited to give effect to it in national legislation. These Regulations give effect to the Nuclear Code.
Publisher: Statute Law Database
Identifier: http://www.legislation.gov.uk/uksi/2022/1169

## The Merchant Shipping (Nuclear Ships) Regulations 2022

    Merchant Shipping   Safety

  Made   15th November 2022

  Laid before Parliament   16th November 2022

  Coming into force   8th December 2022

      The Secretary of State is satisfied, for the purposes of section 47(2)
of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 , that it is necessary or expedient, in the
interests of safety, to make Regulations in so far as they require ships to
carry qualified seamen.           The Secretary of State, after consulting the
persons referred to in section 86(4) of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 , and
in exercise of the powers conferred by sections 85(1), (3), (5) and (7),
86(1)(a), (b), (c) and (d), 302(1) and 306A of that Act, article 2 of the
Merchant Shipping (Prevention of Pollution) (Law of the Sea Convention) Order
1996 , and article 2 of the Merchant Shipping (Control of Pollution) (SOLAS)
Order 1998 , and with the consent of the Treasury, makes the following
Regulations

### Preliminary

#### Citation, commencement, extent and amendments

1

1.1

These Regulations may be cited as the Merchant Shipping (Nuclear Ships)
Regulations 2022 and come into force on 8th December 2022.

1.2

These Regulations extend to England and Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

1.3

The amendments listed in the Schedule have effect.

#### Interpretation

2

2.1

In these Regulations—

      “ Certifying Authority ” has the meaning given to it in regulation 4 of
the Merchant Shipping (Survey and Certification) Regulations 2015  (certifying
authorities);           “ Chapter I ” means Chapter I in the Annex to the
Convention (general provisions);           “ Chapter VIII ” means Chapter VIII
in the Annex to the Convention (nuclear ships);           “ construction ”
means, in the context of a nuclear ship, the point at which the keel is laid
or which is at a similar stage of construction, and “ similar stage of
construction ” means the stage at which—         construction identifiable
with a specific ship begins; and           assembly of that ship has commenced
comprising at least 50 tons or 1% of the estimated mass of all structural
material, whichever is less,         and “ constructed ” is to be construed
accordingly;           “ Convention ” means the International Convention for
the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 ;           “ Convention country ” means a
country or territory which is either a country the Government of which is
party to the Convention or a territory to which the Convention extends whether
or not it is subject to the amendments to, or reservations in respect of, the
Convention;           “ flag administration ” means the administration of the
State whose flag a ship is entitled to fly;           “ initial survey ” means
the survey of that description in Merchant Shipping Notice 1751 (M+F)
(Amendment 1) ;           “ Merchant Shipping Notice ” means a notice
described as such and issued by the Maritime and Coastguard Agency (an
executive agency of the Department for Transport) and includes a reference to
any document amending or replacing that notice which is considered by the
Secretary of State to be relevant from time to time and is specified in a
Merchant Shipping Notice;           “ Nuclear Code ” means the Code of Safety
for Nuclear Merchant Ships, as adopted by International Maritime Organization
Resolution A.491(XII) on 19th November 1981 ;           “ nuclear ship ” means
any ship to which the Merchant Shipping Act 1995 applies, the normal mode of
propulsion of which is based upon nuclear energy and whose characteristics are
those of conventional displacement ships;           “ Nuclear Ship Safety
Certificate ” means either a “Nuclear Passenger Ship Safety Certificate” or a
“Nuclear Cargo Ship Safety Certificate” issued in accordance with regulation
10 of Chapter VIII;           “ nuclear steam supply system ” means that part
of a reactor installation intended for steam generation;           “ reactor
installation ” means a nuclear reactor, which comprises any plant, including
any machinery, equipment or appliance, whether affixed to land or not,
designed or adapted for the production of atomic energy by a fission process
in which a controlled chain reaction can be maintained without an additional
source of neutrons;           “ prescribed fee ” means the fee prescribed by
the Secretary of State under section 302 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995
(fees) ;           “ renewal survey ” means the survey of that description in
Merchant Shipping Notice 1751 (M+F) (Amendment 1);           “ REPPIR
regulations ” means—         in England and Wales, and Scotland, the Radiation
(Emergency Preparedness and Public Information) Regulations 2019 ; and
in Northern Ireland, the Radiation (Emergency Preparedness and Public
Information) Regulations (Northern Ireland) 2019 ;                 “ sea ”
includes any estuary or arm of the sea but does not include Category A, B, C
or D waters and for the purposes of this definition “ Category A, B, C or D
waters ” means the waters specified as such in Merchant Shipping Notice
1837(M) Amendment 2 ;           “ United Kingdom nuclear ship ” means a United
Kingdom ship within the meaning of section 85(2) of the Merchant Shipping Act
1995 which is a nuclear ship;           “ valid ” means in force and “
validity ” is to be construed accordingly.

2.2

Any reference in these Regulations to the Nuclear Code includes any amendment
or replacement of that Code which is considered by the Secretary of State to
be relevant from time to time and which is specified in a Merchant Shipping
Notice.

2.3

Any reference in the Nuclear Code to a matter that is expressed as a matter
that “should” be discharged, must be read as an obligation to discharge.

#### Application

3

3.1

Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), these Regulations apply to nuclear ships
which are—

3.1.a

United Kingdom nuclear ships, wherever they may be; and

3.1.b

non-United Kingdom nuclear ships while they are within United Kingdom waters.

3.2

These Regulations do not apply to—

3.2.a

ships of war and naval auxiliary ships; or

3.2.b

ships owned or operated by a State and engaged only on governmental non-
commercial service.

3.3

A non-United Kingdom nuclear ship flying the flag of a State which is not a
Convention country is not subject to these Regulations if it would not have
been in United Kingdom waters but for stress of weather or any other
circumstances which the master, owner or charterer could not have prevented.

#### Ambulatory reference

4

4.1

In these Regulations, any reference to Chapter I or Chapter VIII is to be
construed—

4.1.a

as a reference to Chapter I or Chapter VIII as modified from time to time; and

4.1.b

as, if Chapter I or Chapter VIII is replaced, a reference to the replacement.

4.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), Chapter I or Chapter VIII is modified or
replaced if the modification or replacement takes effect in accordance with
Article VIII of the Convention.

4.3

A modification or replacement of Chapter I or Chapter VIII has effect at the
time such modification or replacement comes into force in accordance with
Article VIII of the Convention.

#### Equivalents

5

5.1

Where these Regulations or the Nuclear Code require that—

5.1.a

a particular fitting, material, appliance or apparatus, or a type of fitting,
material, appliance or apparatus, be fitted on, or carried in, a nuclear ship;

5.1.b

any particular arrangement be made on, or in relation to, a nuclear ship; or

5.1.c

any particular provision be made in relation to a nuclear ship,

the Secretary of State may approve any other fitting, material, appliance,
apparatus, arrangement or other provision if satisfied that it is at least as
effective as that required by these Regulations or the Nuclear Code.

5.2

An approval given under paragraph (1) may, on the giving of reasonable notice,
be continued, altered or cancelled.

5.3

An approval given under paragraph (1), or a continuation, alteration or
cancellation under paragraph (2), must—

5.3.a

be in writing;

5.3.b

specify the date on which it takes effect; and

5.3.c

specify the terms, if any, on which it is given.

5.4

The requirement that the approval referred to in paragraph (1), or a
continuation, alteration or cancellation under paragraph (2), be in writing is
satisfied where the text of the approval, continuation, alteration or
cancellation is—

5.4.a

transmitted by electronic means;

5.4.b

received in legible form; and

5.4.c

capable of being used for subsequent reference.

5.5

An approval given under paragraph (1), or a continuation, alteration or
cancellation under paragraph (2), must be recorded in the safety assessment
referred to in regulation 13 (safety assessment – operational requirements).

#### Approvals

6

6.1

The Secretary of State, or any person authorised by the Secretary of State,
may give an approval in relation to a United Kingdom nuclear ship for anything
in the Nuclear Code requiring to be—

6.1.a

approved by the ship’s flag administration;

6.1.b

done to the satisfaction of such administration; or

6.1.c

acceptable to that administration .

6.2

An approval given under—

6.2.a

paragraph (1);

6.2.b

regulation 7 (safety assessment);

6.2.c

regulation 10 (approval of reactor installation);

6.2.ca

regulation 13(3) (approval of change to safety assessment in operational
phase);

6.2.d

regulation 14 (operating manual);

6.2.e

regulation 18(1) (manning and training); or

6.2.f

regulation 20 (surveys of United Kingdom nuclear ships),

may, on the giving of reasonable notice, be continued, altered or cancelled.

6.3

An approval mentioned in paragraph (2) or a continuation, alteration or
cancellation under that paragraph, must—

6.3.a

be in writing;

6.3.b

specify the date on which it takes effect; and

6.3.c

specify the terms, if any, on which it is given.

6.4

The requirement that an approval mentioned in paragraph (2), or a
continuation, alteration or cancellation under that paragraph, be in writing
is satisfied where the text of the approval, continuation, alteration or
cancellation is—

6.4.a

transmitted by electronic means;

6.4.b

received in legible form; and

6.4.c

capable of being used for subsequent reference.

### Special requirements for nuclear ships

#### Safety assessment

7

7.1

A United Kingdom nuclear ship must not be constructed unless a safety
assessment has been prepared and approved by the Secretary of State.

7.2

The safety assessment referred to in paragraph (1) must—

7.2.a

in accordance with regulation 7 of Chapter VIII (safety assessment), evaluate
the nuclear power plant and safety of the ship in order to ensure that there
are no unreasonable radiation or other hazards, at sea or in port, to the
crew, passengers or public, or to waterways, food or water resources;

7.2.b

contain the matters set out in the following provisions in the Nuclear Code—

7.2.b.i

paragraphs 1.4.5 and 1.4.6 in Chapter 1 (principles of risk assessment);

7.2.b.ii

paragraph 7.2.2 in Chapter 7 (content of safety assessment); and

7.2.b.iii

paragraph 8.1.7 in Chapter 8 (specification of surveys etc.), where
appropriate; and

7.2.c

take into account any advancements made in nuclear technology and safety
standards.

7.3

Subject to payment of the prescribed fee, the Secretary of State must approve
the safety assessment referred to in paragraph (1), and any change to it, if
satisfied that the requirements in paragraph (2) have been met.

7.4

For the purposes of this regulation, “ nuclear power plant ” means that part
of the reactor installation that produces steam for propulsion.

#### Design and construction of nuclear ships

8

A nuclear ship must be designed and constructed in accordance with the
following provisions of the Nuclear Code—

8.a

paragraphs 1.3.2, 1.3.3, 1.3.5, 1.3.6, 1.3.8 to 1.3.11 and 1.9.2 in Chapter 1
(general safety principles);

8.b

Chapter 2 (design criteria and conditions);

8.c

Chapter 3 (ship design, construction and equipment);

8.d

Chapter 4 (nuclear steam supply system);

8.e

Chapter 5 (machinery and electrical installations); and

8.f

paragraphs 6.2, 6.4.1 to 6.4.5, 6.4.9, 6.4.10, 6.5.1 to 6.5.9, 6.6.2, 6.7.3,
6.8.1, 6.8.4, 6.9 and 6.10 in Chapter 6 (radiation safety).

#### Suitability of reactor installation for service on board a ship

9

The reactor installation must be designed having regard to the special
conditions of service on board a nuclear ship in both normal and exceptional
circumstances of navigation.

#### Approval of reactor installation

10

For the purposes of the operation of a United Kingdom nuclear ship, the
design, construction, and standards of inspection and assembly of the reactor
installation must be approved by the Secretary of State, or any person
authorised by the Secretary of State, taking into account the limitations on
surveys of the reactor installation as a consequence of the presence of
radiation.

#### Radiation safety

11

11.1

A nuclear ship must comply with each of the following requirements relating to
radiation safety in Chapter 6 of the Nuclear Code (radiation safety)—

11.1.a

paragraphs 6.3 and 6.4 (protection of persons and dosimetry and monitoring);
and

11.1.b

paragraphs 6.5.9 to 6.5.11, 6.6.1, 6.6.3, 6.6.4, 6.7.1, 6.7.2, 6.8.2 and 6.8.3
(radioactive waste management),

that applies to that ship.

11.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), where there is a conflict between the
requirements of the REPPIR regulations and paragraph (1), the requirements of
the REPPIR regulations take precedence.

### Operating requirements for nuclear ships

#### General operating requirements for nuclear ships

12

12.1

Subject to the particular operating requirements in this Part, a nuclear ship
must be operated in accordance with the operating requirements in paragraph
7.1 in Chapter 7 of the Nuclear Code (operating requirements for a nuclear
merchant ship).

12.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1), where there is a conflict between the
requirements of the REPPIR regulations and paragraph (1), the requirements of
the REPPIR regulations take precedence.

#### Safety assessment – operational requirements

13

13.1

A nuclear ship must be operated in compliance with the required safety
assessment, which—

13.1.a

in the case of a United Kingdom nuclear ship, is the safety assessment
referred to in regulation 7 (safety assessment);

13.1.b

in the case of a non-United Kingdom nuclear ship, is the safety assessment
required by regulation 7 of Chapter VIII (safety assessment) and containing
the matters described in regulation 7(2) of these Regulations.

13.2

The safety assessment is subject to each of the following requirements—

13.2.a

it must be kept up to date;

13.2.b

it must be kept on board the nuclear ship;

13.2.c

it must be readily available for examination at all times.

13.3

In the case of a United Kingdom ship, for the purposes of keeping the safety
assessment up to date in accordance with the requirement in sub-paragraph (a)
of paragraph (2), any change to the safety assessment must be approved by the
Secretary of State.

13.4

Subject to payment of the prescribed fee, the Secretary of State must approve
any change to the safety assessment referred to in paragraph (3), if satisfied
that the requirements in paragraph (2) of regulation 7 have been met.

13.5

The safety assessment must be made available to the Secretary of State at
least 12 months before the arrival of a nuclear ship in United Kingdom waters.

#### Operating manual

14

14.1

An operating manual for a nuclear ship must—

14.1.a

be prepared for the information and guidance of the crew of the ship in
accordance with regulation 8 in Chapter VIII (operating manual);

14.1.b

include the information referred to in—

14.1.b.i

paragraph 7.2.3 in Chapter 7 of the Nuclear Code (content of the operating
manual); and

14.1.b.ii

paragraph 8.1.7 in Chapter 8 of the Nuclear Code (specification of surveys
etc.);

14.1.c

make provision for nuclear waste management as described in paragraphs 6.5 to
6.9 of the Nuclear Code (management of radioactive waste); and

14.1.d

be approved—

14.1.d.i

in the case of a United Kingdom nuclear ship, by the Secretary of State;

14.1.d.ii

in the case of a non-United Kingdom nuclear ship, by that ship’s flag
administration.

14.2

For the purposes of paragraph (1)(d)(i), the Secretary of State must approve
the operating manual referred to in paragraph (1) if satisfied that—

14.2.a

the requirements in that paragraph have been met; and

14.2.b

the prescribed fee has been paid.

14.3

A nuclear ship—

14.3.a

must not be operated until the operating manual has been approved in
accordance with paragraph (1)(d); and

14.3.b

must be operated in compliance with its approved operating manual.

14.4

When a nuclear ship and its reactor installation are being operated, the
procedures referred to in paragraph 7.3.1 of the Nuclear Code (normal
operating procedures) must be followed.

14.5

The operating manual must be—

14.5.a

kept up to date;

14.5.b

kept on board the nuclear ship;

14.5.c

readily available for examination at all times.

#### Additional operating documentation

15

15.1

In addition to the safety assessment required by regulations 7 (safety
assessment) and 13 (safety assessment – operational requirements), the
operating manual required by regulation 14 (operating manual) and the Nuclear
Ship Safety Certificate required by regulation 21 (certification of nuclear
ships), a nuclear ship must hold operating documentation reflecting the
specific features of the construction and operation of the nuclear ship and
which include the following operating documentation—

15.1.a

certificates attesting to the nuclear training of the master and ship’s
officers and other crew members holding specialised certification;

15.1.b

radiation emergency plan;

15.1.c

radiation muster list;

15.1.d

records of surveys, functional tests and maintenance and repairs of the
nuclear steam supply system; and

15.1.e

registration logs and records for radiation control, radioactive waste
management and fissile material inventory.

15.2

Where the requirement for a radiation emergency plan specified in paragraph
(1)(b) conflicts with the requirement for an operator’s emergency plan
specified in the REPPIR regulations , the REPPIR regulations take precedence.

15.3

The documentation referred to in paragraph (1) must be—

15.3.a

kept up to date;

15.3.b

kept on board the nuclear ship;

15.3.c

readily available for examination at all times.

15.4

All the technical information listed in paragraph 7.2.4 in Chapter 7 of the
Nuclear Code (content of logs) involving the operation of the reactor
installation must be recorded in accordance with the requirements of that
paragraph.

15.5

All the information relating to emergency plans and muster lists for a nuclear
ship listed in paragraph 7.2.5 in Chapter 7 of the Nuclear Code (content of
emergency plans and muster lists) must be prepared in accordance with the
requirements of that paragraph.

15.6

A schedule of surveys, functional tests, maintenance and repairs of the
nuclear steam supply system equipment must be maintained in accordance with
paragraph 7.2.6 in Chapter 7 of the Nuclear Code (information relating to
nuclear steam supply system equipment).

#### Emergency operation procedures

16

In the event of an emergency situation, the procedures contained in paragraph
7.4 in Chapter 7 of the Nuclear Code (emergency operation procedures) must be
followed.

#### Maintenance and repair

17

Maintenance and repair of a nuclear ship must be carried out in accordance
with paragraph 7.5 in Chapter 7 of the Nuclear Code (maintenance and repair).

#### Manning and training

18

18.1

The crew of a nuclear ship must comprise—

18.1.a

crew qualified and trained in accordance with paragraph 7.6 in Chapter 7 of
the Nuclear Code (manning, training, qualification, updating of knowledge,
drills and musters); and

18.1.b

sufficient crew to operate the reactor installation safely, the minimum number
of which must be approved by the Secretary of State in the case of a United
Kingdom ship prior to operation of the reactor installation.

18.2

A person providing the training required by paragraph (1) in the United
Kingdom must be approved by the Secretary of State as a provider of training
for crew on nuclear ships.

18.3

The Secretary of State may approve a person as a provider of training for crew
on nuclear ships if satisfied that that person—

18.3.a

has the qualifications and experience appropriate to provide the training
specified in paragraph 7.6 in Chapter 7 of the Nuclear Code; and

18.3.b

has paid the prescribed fee.

18.4

An approval may be given under paragraph (3) for a maximum period of five
years from the date specified in the approval document.

18.5

The Secretary of State may extend an approval given under paragraph (3) in
maximum increments of five years if satisfied that—

18.5.a

the approved training provider continues to meet the requirements in sub-
paragraph (a) of paragraph (3); and

18.5.b

has paid the prescribed fee.

18.6

An approval given under paragraph (3), or an extension under paragraph (5),
may, on the giving of reasonable notice, be altered, suspended or cancelled.

18.7

An approval given under paragraph (3), an extension under paragraph (5), or an
alteration, suspension or cancellation under paragraph (6), must—

18.7.a

be in writing;

18.7.b

specify the date on which it takes effect; and

18.7.c

specify the terms, if any, on which it is given.

18.8

The requirement that an approval given under paragraph (3), an extension under
paragraph (5), or an alteration, suspension or cancellation under paragraph
(6), be in writing is satisfied where the text of the approval, extension,
alteration, suspension or cancellation is—

18.8.a

transmitted by electronic means;

18.8.b

received in legible form; and

18.8.c

capable of being used for subsequent reference.

18.9

If the Secretary of State intends to refuse to—

18.9.a

approve a person under paragraph (3); or

18.9.b

extend a person’s approval under paragraph (5),

the Secretary of State must give notice in writing to that person.

18.10

A person approved under paragraph (3), or given an extension of an approval
under paragraph (5), must continue to comply with the requirements in sub-
paragraph (a) of paragraph (3) for the duration of the validity of the
approval.

18.11

The Secretary of State may require an approval given under paragraph (3), or
an extension of an approval given under paragraph (5), to be surrendered.

18.12

No person must—

18.12.a

offer to provide, or provide, training or assessment of seafarers under this
regulation without an approval given by the Secretary of State under this
regulation;

18.12.b

with intent to deceive, use, lend, or allow to be used by another an approval
given under paragraph (3), or an extension of an approval given under
paragraph (5);

18.12.c

advertise or otherwise display an approval given by the Secretary of State
under this regulation, which has expired, or has not been given to that person
under this regulation;

18.12.d

fail to surrender an approval required to be surrendered under paragraph (11).

#### Appeal against refusal, alteration, suspension or cancellation of an approval

19

19.1

A person—

19.1.a

who is refused an approval pursuant to regulation 18 (manning and training) or
an extension of an approval under that regulation; or

19.1.b

whose approval under that regulation is subject to an alteration, suspension
or cancellation of an approval under regulation 18(6) (alteration, suspension
or cancellation of an approval),

may, within 21 days after receiving notice of such decision and before the
date specified in the notice, request the Secretary of State to hold an
inquiry.

19.2

If an inquiry is requested by a person in accordance with paragraph (1), the
Secretary of State must cause such an inquiry to be held by one or more
persons appointed by the Secretary of State.

### Survey and certification of nuclear ships

#### Surveys of United Kingdom nuclear ships

20

20.1

A United Kingdom nuclear ship must comply with the following requirements in
Chapter 8 of the Nuclear Code (surveys)—

20.1.a

paragraph 8.1.6 (survey period and methods etc.);

20.1.b

paragraph 8.1.7 (specification of surveys etc.);

20.1.c

paragraph 8.1.8 (safety and decontamination measures during surveys).

20.2

A United Kingdom nuclear ship that is in its construction phase, must be
subjected to the survey described in paragraph 8.2 in Chapter 8 of the Nuclear
Code (survey during construction).

20.3

A United Kingdom ship that is in its trial phase, must be subjected to the
survey described in paragraph 8.3 in Chapter 8 of the Nuclear Code (survey
during trials).

20.4

Before commencing the operations phase, a United Kingdom nuclear ship must be
subjected to an initial survey.

20.5

The initial survey must—

20.5.a

include an inspection to check compliance with these Regulations;

20.5.b

address any special requirements contained in the safety assessment required
by regulation 7 (safety assessment) and in the operating manual required by
regulation 14 (operating manual); and

20.5.c

assess the nuclear ship against the requirements of the following provisions
in Chapter I that apply to the particular ship being surveyed—

20.5.c.i

regulation 7 (surveys of passenger ships);

20.5.c.ii

regulation 8 (surveys of life-saving appliances and other equipment of cargo
ships);

20.5.c.iii

regulation 9 (surveys of radio installations of cargo ships);

20.5.c.iv

regulation 10 (surveys of structure, machinery and equipment of cargo ships).

20.6

A United Kingdom nuclear ship must be subjected to a renewal survey before the
end of every period of 12 months following the issue of the ship’s Nuclear
Ship Safety Certificate, or the renewal of it, and the renewal survey must
include the matters referred to in the specification of the initial survey in
paragraph (5).

20.7

Notwithstanding the requirement for a renewal survey in paragraph (6), and
subject to paragraph (8), a United Kingdom nuclear ship must be subjected to
the supplemental periodical surveys, and at the frequencies specified, in
paragraphs 8.4.3.1 to 8.4.3.4 in Chapter 8 of the Nuclear Code (periodical
surveys of the nuclear steam supply system and supporting hull structure).

20.8

A United Kingdom nuclear ship may be subjected to continuous surveys in
accordance with paragraph 8.4.3.5 in Chapter 8 of the Nuclear Code—

20.8.a

at the request of the Secretary of State; or

20.8.b

with the approval of the Secretary of State,

in place of the supplemental periodical surveys required by paragraph (7).

20.8A

Where continuous surveys are requested or approved in accordance with
paragraph (8), a United Kingdom nuclear ship must be subjected to those
continuous surveys.

20.9

Notwithstanding the requirements of   paragraphs (6), (7) and (8A) , a United
Kingdom nuclear ship must be subjected to the special surveys described in
paragraph 8.5 in Chapter 8 of the Nuclear Code (special surveys, repairs,
renewals and modifications).

20.10

The requirement for a survey under paragraphs (2) to (4) and (6) to (9) is
subject to the presence of potentially harmful levels of radiation on the
ship.

20.11

The results of all surveys and tests must be—

20.11.a

recorded in a legible form and be capable of being used for subsequent
reference;

20.11.b

contain the information specified in paragraph 8.1.9 in Chapter 8 of the
Nuclear Code (results of surveys and tests);

20.11.c

kept in copy on board the nuclear ship;

20.11.d

sent, in the form of a copy, to the Secretary of State on request;

20.11.e

readily available for examination at all times.

20.12

The Secretary of State may determine how and where the information referred to
in paragraph (11) is to be kept for the lifetime of the nuclear ship or its
reactor installation, as applicable.

20.13

For the purposes of this regulation, “ construction phase ”, “ operations
phase ” and “ trial phase ” have the meanings given to them in paragraph 8.1.2
in Chapter 8 of the Nuclear Code (phases of ship’s life cycle).

#### Certification of nuclear ships

21

21.1

Subject to payment of the prescribed fee for a survey and on being notified
that the surveyor—

21.1.a

has carried out an initial survey or a renewal survey in respect of a United
Kingdom nuclear ship in accordance with the requirements of regulation 20
(surveys of United Kingdom nuclear ships); and

21.1.b

is satisfied at the date of the survey that the ship complies with each
requirement of these Regulations, paragraphs (b) or (c) of regulation 10 of
Chapter VIII (certificates) as the case may be, and the Nuclear Code
applicable to it,

a Certifying Authority must issue a Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate in respect
of that ship.

21.2

A certificate issued under paragraph (1) must contain the statement required
by paragraph (d) in regulation 10 of Chapter VIII (statement of convention
compliance).

21.3

The following certificates must be held on board a nuclear ship—

21.3.a

in the case of a United Kingdom nuclear ship or a non-United Kingdom nuclear
ship flying the flag of a Convention country, a valid Nuclear Ship Safety
Certificate;

21.3.b

in the case of a non-United Kingdom nuclear ship flying the flag of a State
which is not a Convention country, a valid certificate issued in accordance
with the requirements of that country for the purpose of operating as a
nuclear ship.

21.4

A certificate mentioned in paragraph (3)(a) or (b) must be readily available
for examination at all times.

#### Duration and validity of a Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate

22

22.1

Subject to paragraph (2), a Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate must be issued,
extended or further extended, as the case may be, for a period of validity of
not more than one year.

22.2

Where a Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate has been issued, extended or further
extended for a period of less than one year and any survey required under
regulation 20 (surveys of United Kingdom nuclear ships) has been
satisfactorily completed, the Certifying Authority may extend the validity of
the certificate so that the certificate is valid for a maximum period of one
year.

#### Responsibilities of owner and master

23

23.1

The owner and master of a nuclear ship must ensure that—

23.1.a

the ship and its equipment is maintained so that the ship in all respects
remains fit to operate without danger to the ship or persons on board;

23.1.b

in the case of a United Kingdom nuclear ship, after a survey of the ship
required by regulation 20 (surveys of United Kingdom nuclear ships) has been
completed, no change is made in the structural arrangements, machinery,
equipment or other items covered by the survey, without the approval of the
Certifying Authority;

23.1.c

whenever an accident occurs to the ship or a defect is discovered, either of
which affects the safety of the ship, it is reported at the earliest
opportunity—

23.1.c.i

in the case of a United Kingdom nuclear ship—

23.1.c.i.aa

to the Certifying Authority and the Secretary of State; and

23.1.c.i.bb

if the ship is in a port outside the United Kingdom, to the appropriate
authorities of the country in which the port is situated; and

23.1.c.ii

in the case of a non-United Kingdom ship, to the Secretary of State or a
proper officer .

23.2

If a report is made under paragraph (1)(c)(i)(aa) or paragraph (1)(c)(ii), the
Certifying Authority, Secretary of State or proper officer, as the case may
be, must determine whether a survey is necessary, and, if so, require one to
be carried out.

23.3

If the survey referred to in paragraph (2) shows that repairs are required, or
if any important repairs or renewals are otherwise made to the ship or its
equipment, a further survey must be carried out on the completion of those
repairs or renewals.

#### Procedure to be adopted when a United Kingdom nuclear ship is deficient

24

24.1

Where a surveyor determines that the condition of a United Kingdom nuclear
ship—

24.1.a

does not correspond substantially with the particulars on the Nuclear Ship
Safety Certificate issued in respect of the ship; or

24.1.b

is such that the ship is not fit to proceed to sea without danger to the ship
or to persons on board,

the surveyor must advise the owner or master of the corrective action which,
in the surveyor’s opinion is required, and must notify the Certifying
Authority.

24.2

If such corrective action is not taken within such reasonable period as a
surveyor may specify, the surveyor, or the Certifying Authority, must notify
the Secretary of State in writing who may suspend the validity of the Nuclear
Ship Safety Certificate issued in respect of that ship until the corrective
action has been taken.

24.3

Where the Secretary of State suspends the validity of the Nuclear Ship Safety
Certificate issued in respect of a United Kingdom nuclear ship or reinstates
the validity of the certificate, the Secretary of State must give notice in
writing of such suspension or reinstatement to the owner and the surveyor and
also to the Certifying Authority, who in turn must give notice to the master.

24.4

The requirement that each notification under paragraphs (2) and (3) be in
writing is satisfied where the text of the notification is—

24.4.a

transmitted by electronic means;

24.4.b

received in legible form; and

24.4.c

capable of being used for subsequent reference.

#### Cancellation of Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate

25

25.1

The Secretary of State may cancel a Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate issued in
respect of a United Kingdom ship where there is reason to believe that—

25.1.a

the certificate was issued on the basis of false or erroneous information; or

25.1.b

since any survey required by these Regulations, the structure, equipment or
machinery has sustained damage or is otherwise deficient.

25.2

The Secretary of State may require a Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate that has
been—

25.2.a

cancelled under paragraph (1); or

25.2.b

issued in respect of a United Kingdom ship but which has expired,

to be surrendered.

25.3

No person must—

25.3.a

intentionally alter a Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate;

25.3.b

intentionally make a false Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate;

25.3.c

in connection with a survey referred to in regulation 20 (surveys of United
Kingdom nuclear ships), knowingly or recklessly furnish false information;

25.3.d

with intent to deceive, use, lend, or allow to be used by another, a Nuclear
Ship Safety Certificate; or

25.3.e

fail to surrender a Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate required to be surrendered
under paragraph (2).

#### Arbitration

26

26.1

If an applicant is dissatisfied for any reason with the outcome of a survey
carried out in respect of a United Kingdom nuclear ship, that person may serve
a written notice on the responsible person within 21 days of receiving notice
of that outcome—

26.1.a

stating that there is a dispute in relation to the survey; and

26.1.b

requesting that the dispute be referred to a single arbitrator.

26.2

Subject to paragraphs (3), (4) and (6), an arbitrator referred to in paragraph
(1) must be appointed by agreement between the parties.

26.3

In default of agreement between the parties, the arbitrator is such person as
may be appointed by the President or Vice President of the Chartered Institute
of Arbitrators following a request by—

26.3.a

a party, after giving written notice to the other party; or

26.3.b

the parties jointly,

but this paragraph does not apply in Scotland.

26.4

No person is to be an arbitrator under this regulation unless that person is—

26.4.a

a person who holds a certificate of competency as a Class 1 Deck Officer or
Class 1 Marine Engineer Officer, or a certificate of competency which is
equivalent to such a certificate;

26.4.b

a naval architect;

26.4.c

a qualified person;

26.4.d

a person with experience of shipping matters; or

26.4.e

a Member of the Chartered Institute of Arbitrators.

26.5

An arbitrator appointed under this regulation has the powers of an inspector
conferred by section 259 of the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.

26.6

In the application of this regulation to Scotland—

26.6.a

any reference to an arbitrator is to be construed as a reference to an
arbiter; and

26.6.b

the reference in paragraph (2) to an arbitrator appointed by agreement between
the parties is to be construed as a reference to a single arbiter so appointed
or, in default of agreement, appointed by a sheriff.

26.7

The rules for arbitration set out in Merchant Shipping Notice M.1613  apply
unless alternative arrangements are agreed between the applicant and the
Secretary of State before the commencement of arbitration proceedings.

26.8

In this regulation—

      “ applicant ” means a person who makes an application for a survey
required by these Regulations;           “ the parties ” means the applicant
and the responsible person, and “ party ” is to be construed accordingly;
“ qualified person ” means—         a person who satisfies the judicial-
appointment eligibility on a 7-year basis within the meaning of section 50 of
the Tribunals, Courts and Enforcement Act 2007 ;           a person who is an
advocate or solicitor in Scotland of at least 7 years’ standing; or
a person who is a member of the Bar of Northern Ireland or a solicitor of the
Supreme Court of Northern Ireland of at least 7 years’ standing;
“ responsible person ” means the Certifying Authority responsible for the
issue of the Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate in connection with which a survey
required by these Regulations is carried out.

#### Prohibition on proceeding on any voyage without the appropriate certificate

27

A nuclear ship must not proceed on any voyage unless it has been surveyed and
there is in force—

27.a

in the case of a United Kingdom nuclear ship or a non-United Kingdom nuclear
ship flying the flag of a Convention country, a Nuclear Ship Safety
Certificate;

27.b

in the case of a non-United Kingdom nuclear ship flying the flag of a State
which is not a Convention country, a certificate issued in accordance with the
requirements of that country for the purpose of operating as a nuclear ship.

### Miscellaneous requirements for nuclear ships

#### Quality assurance programme

28

A nuclear ship must be designed, constructed, tested, inspected, operated and
decommissioned under a quality assurance programme in accordance with
paragraph 1.3.7 in Chapter 1 of the Nuclear Code (quality assurance
programme).

#### Decommissioning of nuclear ships

29

A nuclear ship must be decommissioned in accordance with the requirements in
paragraph 1.8 in Chapter 1 of the Nuclear Code (decommissioning or loss).

#### Loss of nuclear ships

30

In the event of an accident likely to lead to an environmental hazard—

30.a

the master of a United Kingdom nuclear ship must immediately inform—

30.a.i

the Secretary of State; and

30.a.ii

the appropriate maritime authorities of the coastal State in whose waters the
ship is in or whose waters the ship approaches in a damaged condition;

30.b

the master of a non-United Kingdom nuclear ship in United Kingdom waters must
immediately inform the Secretary of State.

### Control and enforcement

#### Offences and penalties

31

31.1

Any contravention of—

31.1.a

regulation 7(1) (requirement for safety assessment);

31.1.b

regulation 8 (design and construction of nuclear ships);

31.1.c

regulation 9 (suitability of reactor installation for service on board a
ship);

31.1.d

regulation 10 (approval of reactor installation);

31.1.e

regulation 11 (radiation safety);

31.1.f

regulation 12, in so far as this relates to a contravention of paragraph 7.1.1
or 7.1.4 in Chapter 7 of the Nuclear Code (general operating requirements for
nuclear ships);

31.1.g

regulation 13(1)(a) or (b), (2)(a) or (b),  (3)   or (5) (safety assessment –
operational requirements);

31.1.h

regulation 14(1), (3)(a) or (b), (4) or (5)(a) or (b) (operating manual);

31.1.i

regulation 15(1), (3)(a) or (b), (4), (5) or (6) (additional operating
documentation);

31.1.j

regulation 16 (emergency operation procedures);

31.1.k

regulation 17 (maintenance and repair);

31.1.l

regulation 18(1) (manning and training);

31.1.m

regulation 20(1)(a), (b) or (c), (2), (3), (4), (6), (7),   (8A) , (9) or
(11)(a), (b), (c) or (d) (surveys of United Kingdom nuclear ships);

31.1.n

regulation 21(3) (requirement to hold on board a Nuclear Ship Safety
Certificate);

31.1.o

regulation 23(1) (responsibilities of owner and master);

31.1.p

regulation 27 (prohibition on proceeding on any voyage without the appropriate
certificate);

31.1.q

regulation 28 (quality assurance programme); or

31.1.r

regulation 29 (decommissioning of nuclear ships),

is an offence by the owner and master of a nuclear ship in respect of each
case of non-compliance.

31.2

Any contravention of regulation 12, in so far as this relates to a
contravention of paragraph 7.1.3 in Chapter 7 of the Nuclear Code (general
operating requirements for nuclear ships), is an offence by the Company.

31.3

Any contravention of regulation 30(a) or (b) (loss of nuclear ships) is an
offence by the master in respect of each case of non-compliance.

31.4

An offence under paragraph (1), (2) or (3) is punishable—

31.4.a

on summary conviction—

31.4.a.i

in England and Wales by a fine; or

31.4.a.ii

in Scotland or Northern Ireland by a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum;
or

31.4.b

on conviction on indictment by imprisonment for a term not exceeding two
years, or a fine, or both.

31.5

Any contravention of—

31.5.a

regulation 13(2)(c) (failure to have safety assessment readily available for
examination);

31.5.b

regulation 14(5)(c) (failure to have operating manual readily available for
examination);

31.5.c

regulation 15(3)(c) (failure to have additional operating documentation
readily available for examination);

31.5.d

regulation 20(11)(e) (failure to have results of surveys and tests readily
available for examination); or

31.5.e

regulation 21(4) (failure to have nuclear ship safety certificate readily
available for examination),

is an offence by the owner and master of a nuclear ship.

31.6

Any contravention of regulation 25(3) (falsification of certificate etc.) is
an offence by the person in question.

31.7

An offence under paragraph (5) or (6) is punishable—

31.7.a

on summary conviction—

31.7.a.i

in England and Wales by a fine; or

31.7.a.ii

in Scotland or Northern Ireland by a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum;
or

31.7.b

on conviction on indictment by imprisonment for a term not exceeding six
months, or a fine, or both.

31.8

A person who contravenes regulation 18(12)(a), (b), (c) or (d) (providing
training without approval etc.) is guilty of an offence.

31.9

An offence under paragraph (8) is punishable—

31.9.a

on summary conviction—

31.9.a.i

in England and Wales by a fine; or

31.9.a.ii

in Scotland or Northern Ireland by a fine not exceeding the statutory maximum;
or

31.9.b

on conviction on indictment by a fine.

31.10

It is a defence for a person charged with an offence under this regulation to
prove that the person charged took all reasonable steps to avoid the
commission of the offence.

31.11

For the purposes of paragraph (2), “ Company ” has the meaning given to it in
regulation 1 of Chapter IX in the Annex to the Convention (International
Safety Management (ISM) Code) .

#### Special control

32

32.1

Nuclear ships are subject to the control of officers authorised by the
Secretary of State before entering a United Kingdom port and when in a United
Kingdom port for the purposes referred to in paragraph (2).

32.2

The officers referred to in paragraph (1) may exercise such control in order
to verify that—

32.2.a

there is on board a nuclear ship a valid Nuclear Ship Safety Certificate, or
an equivalent valid certificate where the ship flies the flag of a State which
is not a Convention country;

32.2.b

the condition of the ship and its equipment correspond substantially with the
particulars shown on the certificate;

32.2.c

the requirements of regulation 23 (responsibilities of owner and master) are
being complied with; and

32.2.d

there are no unreasonable radiation or other hazards that have occurred, or
may occur, at sea or in port, to the crew, passengers or public, or to the
waterways or food or water resources.

#### Detention

33

33.1

For the purposes of this regulation, any reference to “ the Act ” is a
reference to the Merchant Shipping Act 1995.

33.2

Any nuclear ship which does not comply with the requirements of these
Regulations, Chapter I, Chapter VIII or the Nuclear Code applicable to that
ship, may be detained.

33.3

Section 284 of the Act  applies where a nuclear ship is liable to be detained
under this regulation as if—

33.3.a

references to detention of a ship under the Act were references to detention
of the ship in question under this regulation; and

33.3.b

subsection (7) were omitted.

33.4

Where a nuclear ship is liable to be detained under this regulation, the
person detaining the ship must serve on the master a detention notice which—

33.4.a

states the grounds for the detention; and

33.4.b

requires the terms of the notice to be complied with until the ship is
released by any person mentioned in section 284(1) of the Act.

33.5

Subject to paragraph (6), section 96 (references of detention notices to
arbitration)  and section 97 (compensation in connection with invalid
detention of a ship) of the Act apply in relation to a detention notice issued
pursuant to this regulation as they apply in relation to detention notices
issued pursuant to section 95 (power to detain dangerously unsafe ship).

33.6

For the purposes of paragraph (5)—

33.6.a

section 96 of the Act applies as if—

33.6.a.i

subsection (3) were omitted;

33.6.a.ii

the words “as a dangerously unsafe ship” in subsection (5) were omitted;

33.6.a.iii

subsection (11) were omitted; and

33.6.b

sections 96 and 97 of the Act apply as if “ the relevant inspector ” means a
person issuing the detention notice pursuant to this regulation.

33.7

Subject to paragraph (8), where a non-United Kingdom nuclear ship is detained,
the Secretary of State must immediately inform the ship’s flag administration
in writing.

33.8

If it is not possible to inform the nuclear ship’s flag administration in
accordance with paragraph (7), the Secretary of State must inform the Consul
of the State of the flag administration, or in the absence of a Consul, the
nearest diplomatic representative of the State of the flag administration.

#### Review of the Regulations

34

34.1

The Secretary of State must from time to time—

34.1.a

carry out a review of the regulatory provision contained in these Regulations;
and

34.1.b

publish a report setting out the conclusions of the review.

34.2

The first report must be published before 8th December 2027.

34.3

Subsequent reports must be published at intervals not exceeding five years.

34.4

Section 30(3) of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
requires that a review carried out under this regulation must, so far as is
reasonable, have regard to how the obligations under the Convention are
implemented in other countries which are subject to those obligations.

34.5

Section 30(4) of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
requires that a report published under this regulation must, in particular—

34.5.a

set out the objectives intended to be achieved by the regulatory provision
referred to in paragraph (1)(a);

34.5.b

assess the extent to which those objectives are achieved;

34.5.c

assess whether those objectives remain appropriate; and

34.5.d

if those objectives remain appropriate, assess the extent to which they could
be achieved in another way which involves less onerous regulatory provision.

34.6

In this regulation, “ regulatory provision ” has the same meaning as in
sections 28 to 32 of the Small Business, Enterprise and Employment Act 2015
(see section 32 of that Act).

      Signed by authority of the Secretary of State for Transport       Vere
Parliamentary Under Secretary of State   Department for Transport     15th
November 2022             We consent to the making of these Regulations
Nigel Huddleston   Amanda Solloway   Two of the Lords Commissioners of His
Majesty’s Treasury     14th November 2022

Amendments

Regulation 1

##### The Merchant Shipping (Survey and Certification) Regulations 2015

1

The Merchant Shipping (Survey and Certification) Regulations 2015  are amended
as follows.

2

In regulation 5 (application and exemption)—

2.a

after paragraph (2)(e), omit “and”; and

2.b

at the end of paragraph (2)(f), insert—

, and

2.b.g

nuclear ships, as defined in regulation 2(1) of the Merchant Shipping (Nuclear
Ships) Regulations 2022

.

##### The Merchant Shipping (Fees) Regulations 2018

3

The Merchant Shipping (Fees) Regulations 2018  are amended as follows.

4

In Schedule 1 (fees under the Merchant Shipping Act 1995), in the table in
paragraph 5 (fees for inspections, etc.) of Part 1 (surveys, inspections and
applications for exemption), in Section I (construction and equipment), at the
end—

4.a

in the first column, insert  “The Merchant Shipping (Nuclear Ships)
Regulations 2022” ;

4.b

in the second column, insert  “2022/1169” ;

4.c

in the third column, insert  “None” .

## EXPLANATORY NOTE

    (This note is not part of the Regulations)

  These Regulations implement the requirements of Chapter VIII in the Annex to
the Convention for the Safety of Life at Sea, 1974 (“ the Convention ”), which
contains the safety requirements for merchant nuclear powered ships (“nuclear
ships”). Chapter VIII is supplemented by the Code of Safety for Nuclear
Merchant Ships (“the Nuclear Code”), which was adopted by the International
Maritime Organization (IMO) in Resolution A.491(XII) on 19th November 1981.
Although the Nuclear Code is not part of the Convention, or made mandatory by
it, Member States were invited to give effect to it in national legislation.
These Regulations give effect to the Nuclear Code.

  Except with very limited exceptions, these Regulations apply to all United
Kingdom commercially operated nuclear ships and non-United Kingdom
commercially operated nuclear ships in United Kingdom waters, including ships
from States which are not parties to the Convention.

  All future amendments to the provisions of Chapter VIII referred to in these
Regulations will be automatically incorporated into the Regulations by way of
the ambulatory reference provision in regulation 4, as well as references that
are made to certain provisions in Chapter I of the Convention (general
provisions). Future amendments to the Nuclear Code may be specified by the
Secretary of State in a Merchant Shipping Notice in order to bring the Nuclear
Code requirements referred to in these Regulations up to date.

  The Regulations provide for the approval of equivalents (regulation 5) and
the approval of matters in the Nuclear Code requiring the approval of the
Administration (regulation 6). The Convention prohibits an Administration from
granting a nuclear ship an exemption from any of the requirements and
consequently no provision for exemptions is made.

  Part 2 makes provision for the special requirements that apply to nuclear
ships, including the requirements for a safety assessment prior to the
construction of a nuclear ship (regulation 7).

  Part 3 makes provision for the particular operating requirements that apply
to nuclear ships, including special requirements for the manning and training
of crew on nuclear ships (regulation 18).

  Part 4 makes provision for the survey and certification of United Kingdom
nuclear ships (regulations 20 and 21), with provision for arbitration as a
dispute mechanism in regulation 26. Regulation 23 places responsibility on the
owner and master to operate a United Kingdom ship safely and regulations 24
and 25 provide for the suspension or cancellation of a nuclear ship safety
certificate issued to a United Kingdom ship. Regulation 27 prohibits a nuclear
ship from proceeding to sea or on any voyage without the appropriate
certificate.

  Part 5 contains miscellaneous requirements for nuclear ships. Regulation 28
makes provision for a quality assurance programme, regulation 29 provides for
the decommissioning of nuclear ships and regulation 30 specifies the action
that the master must take in the event of the loss of a nuclear ship.

  The Regulations also provide for offences and penalties in the event of a
contravention of the requirements of the Regulations (regulation 31).
Regulation 32 makes provision for the special control of nuclear ships,
enabling port State control officers to check, amongst other things, for
unreasonable radiation or other hazards. In cases of non-compliance with the
Regulations, a ship may also be detained (regulation 33).

  Regulation 34 requires the Secretary of State to review the operation and
effect of these Regulations and publish a report before 8th December 2027 and
at intervals not exceeding five years after that. Following a review, it will
fall to the Secretary of State to consider whether the Regulations should
remain as they are, or be amended or revoked. A further instrument would be
needed to amend or revoke the Regulations.

  Marine Guidance Note 679 (M) also provides guidance on how the Secretary of
State will exercise discretion where the Nuclear Code permits this. Marine
Guidance Note 679 (M) is available from the Maritime and Coastguard Agency
(MCA) of Spring Place, 105 Commercial Road, Southampton SO15 1EG (telephone
020 3817 2000 and email  infoline@mcga.gov.uk ) and on
https://www.gov.uk/topic/ships-cargoes/m-notices . Merchant Shipping Notice
M.1613 is also available at the same link and from the MCA.

  The Convention and its Protocol of 1988 may be obtained in copy from the
International Maritime Organization (IMO), 4 Albert Embankment, London SE1 7SR
and both are available on the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office
(FCDO) treaties database (
https://treaties.fcdo.gov.uk/responsive/app/consolidatedSearch/ ). The text of
the IMO Resolutions amending the Convention and Protocol may be obtained from
the IMO or found on the FCDO treaties database (
https://treaties.fcdo.gov.uk/responsive/app/consolidatedSearch/ ).

  Future amendments to the Convention and to the Protocol may be obtained in
copy from the IMO and, after coming into force in the United Kingdom, found on
the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office (FCDO) treaties database (
https://treaties.fcdo.gov.uk/responsive/app/consolidatedSearch/ ). Until such
publication is made on the FCDO treaties database, an amendment will be
available from the MCA and on  https://www.gov.uk . An amendment will be
publicised in advance of its in-force date by means of a Parliamentary
Statement to both Houses of Parliament and by way of a Marine Guidance Note,
which will be available in copy from the MCA and on  https://www.gov.uk .

  A full impact assessment has not been produced for this instrument as no, or
no significant, impact on the private, voluntary or public sector is foreseen.

  An Explanatory Memorandum is published alongside the instrument on
www.legislation.gov.uk .

